item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsintroductionsee the glossary of defined terms at the beginning of this quarterly report on form 10-q for terms used throughout this md&a. our md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:●overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookbeginning on page 57 this section provides information about the following: our business; our performance during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 and 2017; our operating environment; the global economic environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2018. ●significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptionsbeginning on page 71 this section discusses updates to our 2017 financial report disclosures for those accounting policies and estimates that we consider important in understanding our consolidated financial statements. for additional discussion of our accounting policies, see notes to consolidated financial statements—note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomebeginning on page 72 this section includes the following sub-sections:  ○  revenues by segment and geographybeginning on page 72 this sub-section provides an overview of revenues by segment and geography as well as revenue deductions  ○  revenues - selected product discussionbeginning on page 76 this sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products.  ○  product developments - biopharmaceuticalbeginning on page 82 this sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.  ○  costs and expensesbeginning on page 85 this sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.  ○  provision for taxes on incomebeginning on page 88 this sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.  ○  non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)beginning on page 88 this sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. ●analysis of operating segment informationbeginning on page 94 this section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomebeginning on page 102 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsbeginning on page 102 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flowsbeginning on page 104 this section provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first nine months of 2018 and 2017. ●analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourcesbeginning on page 105 this section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of september 30, 2018 and december 31, 2017, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of september 30, 2018 and december 31, 2017. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer’s future activities. ●new accounting standardsbeginning on page 109 this section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. ●forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsbeginning on page 111 this section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a. also included in this section is a discussion of legal proceedings and contingencies. certain amounts in our md&a may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.55the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %change september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %changerevenues $13,298 $13,168 1 $39,670 $38,843 2             cost of sales(a) 2,694 2,844 (5) 8,173 7,972 3% of revenues 20.3% 21.6%   20.6% 20.5%               selling, informational and administrative expenses(a) 3,494 3,504 — 10,448 10,249 2% of revenues 26.3% 26.6%   26.3% 26.4%               research and development expenses(a) 2,008 1,865 8 5,549 5,367 3% of revenues 15.1% 14.2%   14.0% 13.8%               amortization of intangible assets 1,253 1,177 6 3,640 3,571 2% of revenues 9.4% 8.9%   9.2% 9.2%               restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 85 114 (26) 172 267 (36)% of revenues 0.6% 0.9%   0.4% 0.7%               other (income)/deductions––net (414) 79 * (1,143) 65 *income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 4,177 3,585 17 12,831 11,351 13% of revenues 31.4% 27.2%   32.3% 29.2%               provision for taxes on income 66 727 (91) 1,270 2,287 (44)effective tax rate 1.6% 20.3%   9.9% 20.1%               income from continuing operations 4,111 2,858 44 11,562 9,064 28% of revenues 30.9% 21.7%   29.1% 23.3%               discontinued operations––net of tax 11 — * 10 1 *             net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 4,122 2,858 44 11,571 9,066 28% of revenues 31.0% 21.7%   29.2% 23.3%               less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 8 18 (53) 25 32 (22)net income attributable to pfizer inc. $4,114 $2,840 45 $11,546 $9,034 28% of revenues 30.9% 21.6%   29.1% 23.3%               earnings per common share––basic:            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.70 $0.48 46 $1.96 $1.51 29net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.70 $0.48 47 $1.96 $1.51 29             earnings per common share––diluted:            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.69 $0.47 46 $1.92 $1.49 29net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.69 $0.47 46 $1.92 $1.49 29             cash dividends paid per common share $0.34 $0.32 6 $1.02 $0.96 6* calculation not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%.(a) excludes amortization of intangible assets, except as disclosed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.56overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (alliance revenues).we manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information and the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a below, including a discussion of our plans to reorganize our operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of fiscal 2019.in october 2018, we announced our board of directors unanimously elected dr. albert bourla, pfizer chief operating officer, to succeed ian read as chief executive officer effective january 1, 2019. ian read will transition from his current role as chairman and chief executive officer to executive chairman of pfizer’s board of directors.the majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2017 form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, the ability to replenish innovative biopharmaceutical products, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. we also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. for additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “our operating environment” and “the global economic environment” sections of this md&a and of our 2017 financial report, part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors” of this quarterly report on form 10-q. the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the u.s. is as of and for the three and nine months ended august 26, 2018 and august 27, 2017. the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for u.s. subsidiaries is as of and for the three and nine months ended september 30, 2018 and october 1, 2017.references to developed and emerging markets in this md&a include:developed markets u.s., western europe, japan, canada, australia, south korea, scandinavian countries, finland and new zealand   emerging markets (includes, but is not limited to) asia (excluding japan and south korea), latin america, eastern europe, africa, the middle east, central europe and turkeyreferences to operational variances in this md&a pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. the operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current period u.s. dollar results by the current period average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year period average foreign exchange rates. although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information in evaluating the results of our business.on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted significant changes to u.s. tax law following the passage and signing of the tcja. the tcja is complex and significantly changes the u.s. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. for information on estimates and assumptions in connection with the tcja, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations.we continue to review strategic options for our consumer healthcare business. we remain disciplined regarding our capital allocation, and at this time we have not received an acceptable offer for the sale of this business. we will continue our 57management of this strong business as we explore other alternatives, which could include everything from a full or partial separation of the business to ultimately deciding to retain the business. we continue to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business will be made during the fourth quarter of 2018. our other significant business development activities include:•on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion systems net assets, his, to icu medical for up to approximately $900 million, composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, icu medical common stock and seller financing. at closing, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of icu medical common stock, which we initially valued at approximately $428 million (a portion of which we sold in august 2018), a promissory note in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. in addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on icu medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through december 31, 2019. the operating results of his are included in our condensed consolidated statement of income and eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for the third quarter of 2017 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, while our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for the first nine months of 2017 reflect approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations. our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for 2018 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations.•on december 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s. for $1,040 million, composed of cash and contingent consideration. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of this business, and, in accordance with our international reporting period, our financial results, eh’s operating results, and cash flows for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 reflect approximately three months and eight months, respectively, of the small molecule anti-infectives business acquired from astrazeneca. our financial results, eh’s operating results, and cash flows for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 reflect three months and nine months, respectively, of the small molecule anti-infective business acquired from astrazeneca.for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment and the “our strategy” and “our business development initiatives” sections of this md&a below.impact of hurricanes in puerto ricowe have manufacturing and commercial operations in puerto rico, which were impacted by the hurricanes toward the end of the third quarter in 2017. while our three manufacturing sites sustained some damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting puerto rico overall, all three sites have resumed operations and remediation activities will continue through the remainder of the year. given prior inoperability along with ongoing remediation of our sites, there could be certain product shortages in the coming months. our commercial sales offices in puerto rico have been operational since october 2017.product manufacturingwe periodically encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including due to suspension of manufacturing or voluntary recall of a product, or legal or regulatory actions such as warning letters. the product shortages we have been experiencing within our essential health portfolio are primarily for products from the legacy hospira portfolio and are largely driven by capacity constraints, technical issues and supplier quality concerns. we continue to remediate issues at legacy hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables within our essential health portfolio. any continuing product shortage interruption at these manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results, specifically in our sip portfolio. we continue to make progress on our comprehensive remediation plan to upgrade and modernize these facilities, and we expect our supply issues to be significantly improved by the end of 2019.58our 2018 performancerevenuesrevenues in the third quarter of 2018 increased $130 million, or 1%, compared to the same period in 2017, which reflects an operational increase of $243 million, or 2%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $113 million, or 1%. revenues in the first nine months of 2018 increased $827 million, or 2%, compared to the same period in 2017, which reflects a favorable impact of foreign exchange of $693 million, or 2%, and an operational increase of $134 million.the following provides an analysis of the changes in revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018:(millions of dollars) three months nine monthsrevenues, for the three and nine months ended october 1, 2017 $13,168 $38,843    operational growth/(decline):    continued growth from key brands(a) and from recently launched products(b), as well as growth from biosimilars(c) 768 2,172declines from the sip portfolio (primarily in the u.s.), the peri-loe products portfolio (excluding viagra eh(d), which was impacted by the shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues to eh), total viagra(d) (primarily in the u.s.), enbrel (driven by declines in most developed europe markets) and the lep portfolio (primarily in developed markets) (508) (1,971)disposition-related impact of the february 2017 sale of his(e) — (97)other operational factors, net (18) 29operational growth, net 243 134     operational revenues 13,410 38,977(unfavorable)/favorable impact of foreign exchange (113) 693revenues, for the three and nine months ended september 30, 2018 $13,298 $39,670(a) key brands represent eliquis, ibrance, xeljanz, prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and xtandi, as well as, for the first nine months of 2018, chantix/champix. (b) growth from recently launched products include eucrisa in the u.s., as well as besponsa and bavencio, primarily in the u.s. and developed europe.(c) growth from biosimilars, primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s., as well as in developed europe.(d) viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, beginning in 2018, total viagra revenues are reported in eh. total viagra revenues in 2017 represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh.(e) impact on financial results for the sale of his in february 2017. the first nine months of 2018 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the same period in 2017.for worldwide revenues, by geography, for selected products, see the discussion in the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues and product developments––revenues––selected product discussion” section of this md&a. for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of certain products, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13c. segment, geographic and other revenue information: other revenue information.see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues and product developments––revenues by segment and geography” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance.59income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on incomethe following provides an analysis of the increase in income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018: (millions of dollars) three months nine monthsincome from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three and nine months ended october 1, 2017 $3,585 $11,351favorable change in revenues 130 827favorable/(unfavorable) changes:  higher net gains recognized during the period on investments in equity securities(a) 49 349impact of net periodic benefit costs/(credits) other than service costs(a) 93 313higher income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights(a) 61 292impact of certain legal matters, net(a) 146 264lower certain asset impairments(a) 131 103impact of cost of sales(b) 149 (202)impact of selling, information and administrative expenses(c) 10 (198)higher research and development expenses(d) (144) (182)higher amortization of intangible assets(e) (76) (69)all other items, net 43(17)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three and nine months ended september 30, 2018 $4,177$12,831(a) see the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.(b) see the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a.(c) see the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses” section of this md&a.(d) see the “costs and expenses––research and development (r&d) expenses” section of this md&a.(e) see the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets” section of this md&a.for information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters.our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesintellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with generic manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. however, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we lose exclusivity on these products, and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar products and sell them for a lower price. the date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, when generic competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. in june 2018, the patent trial and appeal board ruled on one patent, holding that one claim was valid and that all other claims were invalid. the party challenging that patent has appealed the decision. challenges to other patents remain pending before the u.s. patent and trademark office. the invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace.as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2017 financial report for additional information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity in the u.s., europe and/or japan impacting product revenues and (ii) recent losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. 60we lost or expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years, including, among others, the expiration of the basic product patent for lyrica in the u.s. in december 2018. pfizer is currently pursuing a six-month patent-term extension for pediatric exclusivity for lyrica in the u.s. with the fda. for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2017 form 10-k.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. contingencies and certain commitments: legal proceedings––patent litigation.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. for additional information, see the “government regulation and price constraints” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2017 form 10-k. we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017reduction to revenues, related to the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision $217 $157 $435 $296selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes), based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. the first nine months of 2018 also reflected a favorable true-up associated with the updated 2017 invoice received from the federal government, which reflected a lower expense than what was previously estimated for invoiced periods. 43 87 118 218regulatory environment/pricing and access––government and other payer group pressuresthe pricing of medicines by pharmaceutical manufacturers and the cost of healthcare, which includes medicines, medical services and hospital services, continues to be important to payers, governments, patients, and other stakeholders. we believe that medicines are amongst the most powerful tool for patients in curing, treating and preventing illness and disability, and that all patients should have appropriate access to the medicines their doctors prescribe. we may consider a number of factors when determining a medicine’s price, including, for example, its impact on patients and their disease, other available treatments, the medicine’s potential to reduce other healthcare costs (such as hospital stays), and affordability. within the u.s., in particular, we may also engage with patients, doctors and healthcare plans regarding their views. we also negotiate with insurers, including pbms and mcos, often providing significant discounts to them from the initial price. the price that patients pay in the u.s. for the medicines their physicians prescribe is ultimately set by healthcare providers and insurers. on average, in the u.s., insurers cover a much lower share of prescription drug costs than medical services, which results in a greater proportion of out-of-pocket costs being passed on to patients for medicines, thereby making them less accessible and affordable. we will continue to work with insurance providers, governments and others to improve access to today’s innovative treatments.governments, mcos and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. in the u.s., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. significant medicare reductions could also result if congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange 61for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue.efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. recently, there has been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. there have also been state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. certain state legislation has been subject to legal challenges.adoption of new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we will continue to work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system.we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. the likelihood of such a repeal currently appears low given the recent u.s. midterm elections, which resulted in democratic control of the house of representatives. although the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges under the aca are minor, there is no assurance that any future replacement, modification or repeal of the aca will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage. we also may face uncertainties if our industry is looked to for savings to fund certain legislation, such as lifting the debt ceiling. one recent example is the bipartisan budget act of 2018, which increased the discount we pay in the medicare part d “coverage gap” from 50% to 70%, which will modestly reduce our future medicare part d revenues.in may 2018, president trump released his blueprint to lower drug prices and reduce out-of-pocket costs (blueprint). pfizer communicated a formal response to the request for information that accompanied the blueprint, and is participating in the subsequent rule-making process to advance the proposals that are most likely to bring meaningful out-of-pocket cost relief to patients. certain proposals in the blueprint, and related drug pricing measures proposed since the blueprint, could cause significant operational and reimbursement changes for the pharmaceutical industry. on july 10, 2018, pfizer decided to defer price increases that were effective july 1, 2018, and return those prices to their pre-july 1, 2018 levels. in addition, the price declines that we took as of july 1, 2018 remain in effect.the potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca to be imposed in 2022, are already scaling back healthcare benefits and an increasing number are implementing high deductible benefit designs. this is a trend that is likely to continue. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes.overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. outside the u.s., governments, including the different eu member states, japan and canada, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, forced localization as a condition of market access and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and incomplete value assessments across countries has led to different prices in different countries, varying health outcomes and some third-party trade in our products between countries.in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations (un) and the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 un high level panel report on access to medicines and 2017 oecd report on new health technologies––managing access, value and sustainability). the recommendations from these reports and any other recommendations that may be made in the future will continue to exert additional pricing pressures.62in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. for additional information, see the “regulatory environment––pipeline productivity” and “competition” sections of our 2017 financial report.the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. •governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. examples include europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets. the u.s. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage.•significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela and argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” and the “our financial guidance for 2018” sections of this md&a. •in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as “brexit”. in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. formal negotiations officially started in june 2017. this process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. the ema announced in november 2017 that it will be relocating from london, u.k. to amsterdam, netherlands by the expected date of brexit in march 2019.we generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the u.k. in 2017 and in the first nine months of 2018, including the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date. we recognize that there are still significant uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of brexit negotiations, and we will continue to monitor any changes that may arise and assess their potential impact on our business.pfizer’s preparations are well advanced to make the changes necessary to meet eu legal requirements after the u.k. is no longer a member state, especially in the regulatory, manufacturing and supply chain areas. the aim is to ensure the continuity of supply to patients in europe (eu and u.k.) and other global markets impacted by these changes. the one-time costs of making these adaptations are currently estimated at approximately $100 million.•on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted significant changes to u.s. tax law following the passage and signing of the tcja. the tcja is complex and significantly changes the u.s. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a 63territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. given the significant changes resulting from and complexities associated with the tcja, the estimated financial impacts for 2017, as well as the estimated impact on 2018 financial guidance for the effective tax rate on adjusted income remain provisional and subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the tcja, which could result in further changes to these estimates during the fourth quarter of 2018. for additional information, see the “our financial guidance for 2018”, “provision for taxes on income” and “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations.pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both s&p and moody’s. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors” of this quarterly report on form 10-q.our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. organizing for growthwe expect higher and more sustained growth post-2020 after our near-term patent expirations occur. therefore, in july 2018, we announced that we will organize our company into three businesses effective at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year. we believe the new structure better positions each business to achieve its growth potential:•a science-based innovative medicines business, which will include all of our current innovative health medicines and vaccines business units as well as biosimilars and a new hospital medicines business unit that will commercialize our global portfolio of sterile injectable and anti-infective medicines;•an off-patent branded and generic established medicines business; and•a consumer healthcare business, for which we continue to evaluate strategic alternatives, with a decision expected in the fourth quarter of 2018.these changes will not be effective until the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year to allow for the necessary internal transition process. we are currently evaluating the impact to our operating segments and other costs and activities based on how the businesses will be managed in 2019. beginning with our first-quarter 2019 financial results, our financial reporting will reflect the new organizational structure.as we prepare for expected growth, we are focused on creating a simpler, more efficient structure within each business and the functions that support them. further, as our innovative pipeline matures with the anticipated progression of current and the initiation of new pivotal trials, we will need to increase our r&d investments. in addition, as our pipeline potentially delivers new commercialization opportunities, we will need to increase our investments in new-market-creation activities. to partially offset these incremental cost increases, we expect to generate cost reduction opportunities, particularly in si&a. we are taking steps to simplify the organization, increase spans of control and reduce organizational layers. as such, we expect some managerial roles and responsibilities to be impacted. enhancements to certain employee benefits are being offered for a short period of time. we do not yet know the impact of these voluntary and involuntary plans, but expect to record a special termination benefit as well as severance in the fourth quarter of 2018. such benefits will be reflected as certain significant items and excluded from our non-gaap measure of adjusted income. we do not expect the expenses related to these 64enhancements to change our current full year 2018 guidance. any future impact will be considered in the totality of our annual guidance for 2019.commercial operationswe currently manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). the ih and eh operating segments are each led by a single manager. each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain ipr&d projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets.some additional information about our business segments as of september 30, 2018 follows:   ●ih focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare.key therapeutic areas include internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare disease and consumer healthcare. ●eh includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded and generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars, and select branded products including anti-infectives. eh also includes an r&d organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business.through february 2, 2017, eh also included his. ●we expect that the ih biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to help ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by ih are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. ●eh is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. eh leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. additionally, eh leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. eh may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.●ih will have continued focus on r&d productivity and pipeline strength while maximizing the value of our recently launched brands and in-line portfolio. we have also expanded our pipeline in high priority therapeutic areas such as inflammation and immunology and oncology with select business development transactions. ●for eh, we continue to invest in growth drivers and manage the portfolio to extract additional value while seeking opportunities for operating efficiencies. this strategy includes active management of our portfolio; maximizing growth of core product segments; acquisitions to strengthen core areas of our portfolio further, such as our acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business; and divestitures to increase focus on our core strengths. in line with this strategy, on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion systems net assets, representing the infusion systems net assets that we acquired as part of the hospira transaction, his, to icu medical. leading brands include:- prevnar 13/prevenar 13- xeljanz- eliquis- lyrica (u.s., japan and certain other markets)- enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada)- ibrance- xtandi- several otc consumer healthcare products (e.g., advil and  centrum)  leading brands include:- lipitor- norvasc- lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asiacountries)- celebrex- viagra*- inflectra/remsima- sulperazon- several other sterile injectable products*viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, beginning in 2018, total viagra worldwide revenues are reported in eh.for additional information about the 2018 performance for each of our operating segments, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.65description of research and development operationsthe following description of r&d operations reflects operations as of september 30, 2018.innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. our r&d priorities include: •delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial potential;•advancing our capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership; and •creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our r&d primarily focuses on:•biosimilars; •inflammation and immunology;•internal medicine;•oncology;•rare diseases; and•vaccines.in january 2018, we announced our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts and re-allocate funding to other areas where we have stronger scientific leadership. the development of tanezumab and potential treatments for rare neuromuscular disorders is not impacted by this decision. in june 2018, we announced our plan to invest $600 million in biotechnology and other emerging growth companies through pfizer ventures, our venture investment vehicle. pfizer ventures will seek to invest approximately 25% of its available capital ($150 million) in promising early-stage neuroscience companies. in addition to increased funding, we will extend our leadership as a venture capital investor with an expanded team that leverages expertise across venture capital investing, business development, drug discovery and clinical development. the new organization consolidates r&d innovate, pfizer’s r&d equity investment vehicle, with pfizer venture investments, our long-standing venture investment group. in september 2018, we and bain capital entered into a transaction to create a new biopharmaceutical company, cerevel, to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets primarily targeting disorders of the central nervous system including parkinson’s disease, epilepsy, alzheimer’s disease, schizophrenia and addiction. for additional information on the transaction with bain capital, see the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b.acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment: divestitures.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations: •research units within our wrd organization are generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our ih business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our research units are organized by therapeutic area to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources within a research unit between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. •our r&d organization within the eh business supports the large base of eh products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. •our gpd organization is a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products and is generally responsible for the operational execution of clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. •our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&d spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicinal chemistry, regulatory and drug safety, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. as a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs.we manage r&d operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. specifically, a single committee with representation from the r&d groups and the ih commercial organization is accountable for aligning resources among all of our wrd, gpd and ih r&d projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the innovative 66r&d portfolio. we believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. our eh r&d organization manages its resources separately from the wrd and gpd organizations.generally, we do not disaggregate total r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our r&d operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending.while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations, alliances and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments––biopharmaceutical” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. for additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights and certain other patent proceedings, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. contingencies and certain commitments: legal proceedings––patent litigation. for information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see “risks related to intellectual property” in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a. for additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for our company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.increasing investment in the u.s.––after evaluating the expected positive net impact the tcja will have on us, we decided to take several actions:•over the next five years, we plan to invest approximately $5.0 billion in capital projects in the u.s., including the strengthening of our manufacturing presence in the u.s. as part of this plan, in july 2018, we announced that we will increase our commitment to u.s. manufacturing with a $465 million investment to build one of the most technically advanced sterile injectable pharmaceutical production facilities in the world in portage, michigan. this u.s. investment will strengthen our capability to produce and supply critical, life-saving injectable medicines for patients around the world. 67known as modular aseptic processing, the new, multi-story, 400,000-square-foot production facility will also support the area economy by creating an estimated 450 new jobs over the next several years.•we made a $500 million voluntary contribution to our u.s. pension plan in february 2018.•in the fourth quarter of 2017, we made a $200 million charitable contribution to the pfizer foundation, an organization that provides grant and investment funding to support organizations and social entrepreneurs in an effort to improve healthcare delivery.•in the first quarter of 2018, we paid a special, one-time bonus to virtually all pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $119 million in the aggregate.our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of hospira, medivation, anacor, and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies. we assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses.we continue to review strategic options for our consumer healthcare business. we remain disciplined regarding our capital allocation, and at this time we have not received an acceptable offer for the sale of this business. we will continue our management of this strong business as we explore other alternatives, which could include everything from a full or partial separation of the business to ultimately deciding to retain the business. we continue to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business will be made during the fourth quarter of 2018.for additional information on our business development activities, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment.the more significant recent transactions and events are described below:•sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh)––on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion systems net assets, his, to icu medical. in connection with this transaction, we recognized pre-tax income of $2 million in the third quarter of 2018 and pre-tax income of $1 million in the first nine months of 2018, and we recognized pre-tax income of approximately $12 million in the third quarter of 2017 and a pre-tax loss of approximately $52 million in the first nine months of 2017 in other (income)/deductions––net, representing adjustments to amounts previously recorded in 2016 to write down the his net assets to fair value less costs to sell. we may record additional adjustments to the loss on the sale of his net assets in future periods, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.•acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business (eh)––on december 22, 2016, which fell in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s. the total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $555 million in cash plus the fair value of contingent consideration of $485 million.•research and development arrangement with novaquest co-investment fund v, l.p.––in april 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with novaquest under which novaquest will fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain phase 3 clinical trials of pfizer’s rivipansel compound and pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. novaquest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately 12 quarters from 2016 to 2019. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to novaquest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2018 totaled $12.9 million and for the first nine months of 2018 totaled $44.2 million. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2017 totaled $16.8 million and for the first nine months of 2017 totaled $48.8 million. following potential regulatory approval, novaquest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total, based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of 68intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•research and development arrangement with rpi finance trust––in january 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with rpi, a subsidiary of royalty pharma, under which rpi will fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain phase 3 clinical trials of pfizer’s ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the indication). rpi’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials through 2021. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to rpi, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2018 totaled $27.1 million and for the first nine months of 2018 totaled $78.7 million. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2017 totaled $27.6 million and for the first nine months of 2017 totaled $54.4 million. if successful and upon approval of ibrance in the u.s. or certain major markets in the eu for the indication based on the applicable clinical trials, rpi will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain ibrance sales over approximately seven years. fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 22, 2018, the filing date of our 2017 form 10-k, see the “our business development initiatives” section of our 2017 financial report.our financial guidance for 2018on october 30, 2018, we updated our 2018 financial guidance to reflect our performance to date as well as our outlook for the remainder of the year. the midpoint of our guidance range for adjusted diluted eps was unchanged from our july 2018 guidance update. the guidance range for revenues was narrowed from a range of $53.0 to $55.0 billion to a range of $53.0 to $53.7 billion, primarily reflecting:•lower-than-anticipated essential health revenues, primarily due to continued legacy hospira sterile injectable pharmaceuticals (sip) product shortages in the u.s.; and•recent unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates in relation to the u.s. dollar from mid-july 2018 to mid-october 2018, primarily the weakening of certain emerging markets currencies and the euro.pfizer’s updated 2018 financial guidance is presented below(a), (b):revenues$53.0 to $53.7 billion (previously $53.0 to $55.0 billion)adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues20.8% to 21.3% (previously 20.5% to 21.5%)adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$14.0 to $14.5 billion (previously $14.0 to $15.0 billion)adjusted research and development expenses$7.7 to $8.1 billionadjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately $1.3 billion of income (previously approximately $1.0 billion of income)effective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 16.0%adjusted diluted eps$2.98 to $3.02 (previously $2.95 to $3.05)(a) the 2018 financial guidance reflects the following:•a full year contribution from consumer healthcare. pfizer continues to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for consumer healthcare would be made during the fourth quarter of 2018.•does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of september 30, 2018, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions.•guidance for adjusted other (income)/deductions does not attempt to forecast unrealized net gains or losses on equity securities. pfizer is unable to predict with reasonable certainty unrealized gains or losses on equity securities in a given period. net unrealized gains and losses on equity securities are now recorded in adjusted other (income)/deductions during each quarter, reflecting the adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards). prior to the adoption of the new standard, net unrealized gains and losses on virtually all equity securities with readily determinable fair values were reported in accumulated other comprehensive income.•exchange rates assumed are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through third-quarter 2018 and mid-october 2018 exchange rates for the remainder of the year.69•reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $1.8 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. assumes no generic competition for lyrica in the u.s. until june 2019, which is contingent upon a six-month patent-term extension granted by the fda for pediatric exclusivity, which the company is currently pursuing. •reflects the anticipated favorable impact of approximately $350 million on revenues and approximately $0.02 on adjusted diluted eps as a result of favorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2017.•guidance for adjusted diluted eps assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.0 billion shares, which reflects anticipated share repurchases totaling approximately $12.0 billion in 2018, including $9.0 billion of share repurchases already completed through october 30, 2018. dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs is expected to offset the reduction in shares associated with these share repurchases by approximately half.(b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.pfizer does not provide guidance for gaap reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-gaap financial measures to the most directly comparable gaap reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. these items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on gaap reported results for the guidance period. for information about our actual costs and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our three-year cost-reduction initiative entered into in the fourth quarter of 2016, the hospira acquisition, our recent business development activities, and our current global commercial structure, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our 2018 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “our operating environment”, “the global economic environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors” of this quarterly report on form 10-q.70significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptionsfor a description of our significant accounting policies, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies in our 2017 financial report and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues. of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) acquisitions (2017 financial report note 1d); (ii) fair value (2017 financial report note 1e); (iii) revenues (note 1c in this quarterly report on form 10-q); (iv) asset impairments (2017 financial report note 1k); (v) income tax assets and liabilities and income tax contingencies (2017 financial report note 1o); (vi) pension and postretirement benefit plans (2017 financial report note 1p); and legal and environmental contingencies (2017 financial report note 1q). for a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements, see the “significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions” section of our 2017 financial report. see also notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions in our 2017 financial report for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions.for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards and significant accounting policies, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards, note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues and note 1d. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: collaborative arrangements.revenuesour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns. these deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment is required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. if any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. the sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. however, estimates associated with u.s. medicare, medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters.income tax assets and liabilitiesin the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimate of certain tax effects of the tcja, including the impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities from the reduction in the u.s federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, the impact on valuation allowances and other state income tax considerations, a repatriation tax liability on accumulated post-1986 foreign earnings for which we plan to elect payment over eight years through 2026 that is reported primarily in other taxes payable, and deferred taxes on basis differences expected to give rise to future taxes on global intangible low-taxed income. in addition, we had provided deferred tax liabilities in the past on foreign earnings that were not indefinitely reinvested. as a result of the tcja, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we reversed an estimate of the deferred taxes that are no longer expected to be needed due to the change to the territorial tax system. the estimated amounts recorded may change in the future due to uncertain tax positions. the tcja subjects a u.s. shareholder to current tax on global intangible low-taxed income earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. the fasb staff q&a, topic 740, no. 5, accounting for global intangible low-taxed income, states that we are permitted to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years or provide for the tax expense related to such income in the year the tax is incurred. we have elected to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years. however, given the complexity of these provisions, we have not finalized our analysis. we were able to make a reasonable estimate of the deferred taxes on the temporary differences expected to reverse in the future and provided a provisional deferred tax liability as of december 31, 2017. the provisional amount is based on the evaluation of certain temporary differences 71inside each of our foreign subsidiaries that are expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income. however, as we continue to evaluate the tcja’s global intangible low-taxed income provisions during the measurement period, we may revise the methodology used for determining the deferred tax liability associated with such income.we believe that we have made reasonable estimates with respect to each of the above items, however, all of the amounts recorded remain provisional as we have not completed our analysis of the complex and far reaching effects of the tcja. further, we continue to consider our assertions on any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries as of september 30, 2018 and have not completed our analysis. in the third quarter of 2018, we recorded a favorable adjustment to the provisional estimate of the impact of the legislation, primarily related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as revised estimates of benefits related to certain tax initiatives. under guidance issued by the staff of the sec, we expect to finalize our accounting related to the tax effects of the tcja on deferred taxes, valuation allowances, state tax considerations, the repatriation tax liability, global intangible low-taxed income, and any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries during the fourth quarter of 2018, as we complete the remainder of our tax return filings and as any interpretations or clarifications of the tcja occur through further legislation or u.s. treasury actions or other means.income tax assets and liabilities also include income tax valuation allowances and accruals for uncertain tax positions. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements—note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions; note 1o. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: tax assets and liabilities and income tax contingencies and note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations in our 2017 form 10-k, as well as the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources––selected measures of liquidity and capital resources—contractual obligations” section of our 2017 financial report.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income revenues and product developments revenues by segment and geography72the following tables provide worldwide revenues by operating segment and geography:  three months ended  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $8,471 $8,118 $4,881 $4,777 $3,590 $3,341 4 2 7eh 4,826 5,050 1,480 1,756 3,347 3,294 (4) (16) 2total revenues $13,298 $13,168 $6,361 $6,534 $6,937 $6,634 1 (3) 5   nine months ended  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $24,573 $23,204 $14,002 $13,708 $10,572 $9,496 6 2 11eh 15,097 15,639 4,859 5,808 10,238 9,831 (3) (16) 4total revenues $39,670 $38,843 $18,861 $19,516 $20,810 $19,327 2 (3) 8(a) ih = the innovative health segment; and eh = the essential health segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” and “analysis of operating segment information” sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.revenues––third quarter of 2018 vs. third quarter of 2017the following provides an analysis of the worldwide change in revenues by geographic areas in the third quarter of 2018:  three months ended september 30, 2018(millions of dollars) worldwide u.s. internationaloperational growth/(decline):      continued growth from certain key brands(a) $660 $287 $373growth from biosimilars, primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s., as well as in developed europe 56 38 18growth from recently launched products, including eucrisa in the u.s., as well as besponsa and bavencio, primarily in the u.s. and developed europe 52 40 12lower revenues for total viagra(b), primarily in the u.s. due to generic competition that began in december 2017 (169) (165) (4)decline from the peri-loe products portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets (excluding viagra eh(b)), primarily due to expected declines in lyrica in developed europe (125) (61) (64)decline in the lep portfolio primarily driven by lower revenues in developed markets (121) (180) 59lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition (65) — (65)decline from the sip portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (28) (58) 31other operational factors, net (18) (73) 55operational growth/(decline), net 243 (173) 415       unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (113) — (113)revenues increase/(decrease) $130 $(173) $302(a) certain key brands represent eliquis, ibrance, prevnar 13/prevenar 13, xeljanz and xtandi. see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues––selected product discussion" section of this md&a for product analysis information. (b) viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, beginning in 2018, total viagra revenues are reported in eh. total viagra revenues in 2017 represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh. emerging markets revenues increased $226 million, or 8%, in the third quarter of 2018 to $3.1 billion from $2.8 billion, reflecting an operational increase of $356 million, or 13%. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 5% on emerging markets revenues. the operational increase in emerging markets was driven by our eh segment, primarily by the legacy established products portfolio and sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, as well as prevenar 13 in our ih segment.73revenues––first nine months of 2018 vs. first nine months of 2017 the following provides an analysis of the change in worldwide revenues by geographic areas in the first nine months of 2018:  nine months ended september 30, 2018(millions of dollars) worldwide u.s. internationaloperational growth/(decline):      continued growth from certain key brands(a) $1,835 $822 $1,013growth from recently launched products, including eucrisa in the u.s., as well as besponsa and bavencio, primarily in the u.s. and developed europe 172 145 27growth from biosimilars, primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s., as well as in developed europe 165 115 50lower revenues for total viagra(b), primarily in the u.s. due to generic competition that began in december 2017 (495) (491) (4)decline from the peri-loe products portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets (excluding viagra eh(b)), primarily due to expected declines in lyrica in developed europe and pristiq in the u.s. due to generic competition (463) (156) (307)decline from the sip portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (419) (480) 61decline in the lep portfolio, primarily driven by lower revenues in developed markets (314) (460) 145lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition (279) — (279)impact on financial results for the sale of his in february 2017. the first nine months of 2018 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the same period in 2017 (97) (64) (33)other operational factors, net 29 (88) 117operational growth/(decline), net 134 (655) 790       favorable impact of foreign exchange 693 — 693revenues increase/(decrease) $827 $(655) $1,483(a) certain key brands represent eliquis, ibrance, xeljanz, prevnar 13/prevenar 13, xtandi and chantix/champix. see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues––selected product discussion" section of this md&a for product analysis information.(b) viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, beginning in 2018, total viagra revenues are reported in eh. total viagra revenues in 2017 represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh. emerging markets revenues increased $1.1 billion, or 14%, in the first nine months of 2018 to $9.4 billion from $8.2 billion, reflecting an operational increase of $1.1 billion, or 13%. foreign exchange had a favorable impact of approximately 1% on emerging markets revenues. the operational increase in emerging markets was driven by our eh segment, primarily by the legacy established products portfolio and the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, as well as prevenar 13 in our ih segment.revenue deductionsour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns. these deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment is required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues.74the following table provides information about revenue deductions:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017medicare rebates(a) $443 $355 $1,266 $931medicaid and related state program rebates(a) 502 4391,500 1,335performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 854 7732,467 2,321chargebacks(c) 1,654 1,6084,850 4,585sales allowances(d) 1,448 1,4194,142 3,718sales returns and cash discounts 358 329 1,067 1,025total(e) $5,259 $4,923 $15,292 $13,916(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with mcos within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pbms, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. outside the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to u.s. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the u.s., discounts and distribution fees.(e) for the three months ended september 30, 2018, associated with the following segments: ih ($2.3 billion) and eh ($2.9 billion). for the three months ended october 1, 2017, associated with the following segments: ih ($2.4 billion); and eh ($2.5 billion). for the nine months ended september 30, 2018, associated with the following segments: ih ($6.5 billion) and eh ($8.8 billion). for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, associated with the following segments: ih ($6.4 billion) and eh ($7.5 billion).total revenue deductions for the third quarter of 2018 increased 7% compared to the third quarter of 2017, and total revenue deductions for the first nine months of 2018 increased 10% compared to the first nine months of 2017, primarily as a result of:•an increase in sales allowances as a result of sales growth, primarily in international markets;•an increase in medicare rebates driven by increased sales of ih products through this channel;•higher chargebacks to u.s. wholesalers on certain ih and eh products, partially offset by decreases in chargebacks as a result of decreases in sales of sterile injectable products; and•an increase in medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of increased sales of ih products through these programs.for information on our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts, including the balance sheet classification of these accruals, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues.75revenues––selected product discussionthe tables below provide worldwide revenues, by geography, for selected products. references to total change pertain to period-over-period growth rates that include foreign exchange. the difference between the total change and operational change represents the impact of foreign exchange. amounts may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. an asterisk (*) indicates the calculation is not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%.•prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $1,089 $971 12   $2,597 $2,554 2  international 571 551 4 6 1,694 1,515 12 10worldwide revenues $1,660 $1,522 9 10 $4,290 $4,069 5 5the growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 in the u.s. was primarily due to higher government purchases for the pediatric indication, partially offset by the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults aged 65 years and older who have not been previously vaccinated with prevnar 13), compared to the prior-year period. the operational growth in the third quarter of 2018 internationally was primarily due to higher volumes for the pediatric indication resulting from increased orders associated with gavi, the vaccine alliance and from the second-quarter 2017 launch in china. the international operational growth in the first nine months of 2018 was primarily due to higher volumes for the pediatric indication resulting from the second-quarter 2017 launch in china and increased orders associated with gavi, the vaccine alliance.in 2014, the acip voted to recommend prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. these acip recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the cdc and u.s. department of health and human services, and were published in the morbidity and mortality weekly report in september 2014 by the cdc. as with other vaccines, the cdc regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations. during the recently held october 2018 acip meeting, the cdc presented initial data and indicated formal evaluation of evidence (grading) and a potential vote on the maintenance of the 65 years and older recommendation would likely happen in 2019. a potential adverse change in the acip recommendation could negatively impact future prevnar 13 revenues. we continue to generate and publish data and communicate with the acip on the burden of pneumococcal disease and prevnar 13 vaccine effectiveness and safety.we announced in september 2018 that our next generation 20-valent pneumococcal vaccine candidate has received breakthrough therapy designation from the u.s. fda.•lyrica (eh (revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia)/ih (revenues from all other geographies)):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $875 $877 —   $2,643 $2,602 2  international 338 408 (17) (17) 1,006 1,208 (17) (19)worldwide revenues $1,213 $1,285 (6) (5) $3,649 $3,810 (4) (5)the relatively flat performance in the third quarter of 2018 in the u.s. was primarily due to sustained demand. the growth in the first nine months of 2018 in the u.s. was primarily driven by sustained demand and positive price impact. the operational decline in the third quarter of 2018 internationally was primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets, australia and south korea. the operational decline in the first nine months of 2018 internationally was primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets, australia and south korea, partially offset by growth in the orally dissolving tablet formulation in japan.76 the following table provides worldwide revenues for lyrica in our ih segment, by geography:  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $875 $877 —   $2,643 $2,602 2  international 257 274 (6) (6) 755 779 (3) (5)worldwide revenues $1,132 $1,150 (2) (2) $3,398 $3,382 — —worldwide lyrica revenues in our ih segment in the third quarter of 2018 decreased operationally, primarily due to losses of exclusivity in australia in july 2017 and in south korea in august 2017. the relatively flat performance in worldwide lyrica revenues in our ih segment in the first nine months of 2018 was primarily due to losses of exclusivity in australia and south korea, offset by growth in the orally dissolving tablet formulation in japan. the following table provides worldwide revenues for lyrica in our eh segment, by geography:  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $— $— —   $— $— —  international 81 134 (40) (39) 251 428 (41) (45)worldwide revenues $81 $134 (40) (39) $251 $428 (41) (45)the worldwide operational declines in our eh segment in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets.•ibrance (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $708 $713 (1)   $2,178 $2,048 6  international 317 165 93 98 807 362 * *worldwide revenues $1,025 $878 17 18 $2,985 $2,410 24 23the worldwide operational growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 reflects an uptake in international markets, mostly driven by key european markets where we secured access and reimbursement in 2017 and the december 2017 launch in japan as well as ibrance class leadership among cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors in major markets, supported by our scientific/clinical data and continued positive patient experience. the decline in the third quarter of 2018 in the u.s. was primarily due to the impact of competition and increased rebates. the growth in the first nine months of 2018 in the u.s. was primarily due to continued demand growth partially offset by uptake of competitors and increased rebates.•eliquis alliance revenues and direct sales (ih): eliquis has been jointly developed and is commercialized by pfizer and bms. pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where pfizer commercializes eliquis and pays bms compensation based on a percentage of net sales. we have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant (noac) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients.  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $455 $352 29   $1,371 $1,041 32  international 416 291 43 44 1,153 772 49 42worldwide revenues $870 $644 35 36 $2,524 $1,813 39 36the worldwide operational growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by continued increased adoption in non-valvular atrial fibrillation, as well as oral anti-coagulant market share gain. 77•lipitor (eh):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $25 $60 (58)   $86 $125 (32)  international 482 431 12 11 1,453 1,215 20 14worldwide revenues $507 $491 3 3 $1,539 $1,341 15 10the worldwide operational growth in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by increased demand in china, partially offset by the non-recurrence of favorable u.s. rebates that occurred in the third quarter of 2017 and pricing pressures in china. the worldwide operational growth in the first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by increased demand in china and certain middle eastern markets, partially offset by pricing pressures in china, the non-recurrence of favorable u.s. rebates that occurred in the third quarter of 2017 and generic competition in japan.•enbrel (ih, outside the u.s. and canada):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $— $— —   $— $— —  international 531 613 (13) (11) 1,589 1,818 (13) (15)worldwide revenues $531 $613 (13) (11) $1,589 $1,818 (13) (15)the worldwide operational declines in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were primarily due to ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed europe markets, which is expected to continue. •xeljanz (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $332 $291 14   $964 $793 22  international 100 57 76 84 256 142 81 81worldwide revenues $432 $348 24 26 $1,221 $935 31 31the growth in the u.s. in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists, growing awareness among patients and improvements in payer access, as well as launches of the psoriatic arthritis (psa) indication in the first quarter of 2018 and ulcerative colitis indication in the third quarter of 2018.the operational growth internationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by the 2017 approval of the rheumatoid arthritis indication in certain european markets, as well as continued uptake in japan, canada and emerging markets. •sutent (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $80 $87 (7)   $262 $277 (6)  international 168 189 (11) (9) 524 527 (1) (5)worldwide revenues $248 $276 (10) (9) $785 $805 (2) (5)the worldwide operational declines in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were primarily due to lower volumes driven by competitive pressure in the u.s. and certain developed and emerging europe markets.78•norvasc (eh):   three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $9 $9 (2)   $27 $28 (4)  international 238 217 10 10 745 656 14 9worldwide revenues $247 $2269 10 $773 $684 13 9the worldwide operational growth in the third quarter and the first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by increased demand in china, partially offset by generic competition in japan and pricing pressures in china. •chantix/champix (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $197 $180 10   $602 $542 11  international 64 60 6 7 187 184 2 (2)worldwide revenues $261 $240 9 9 $789 $727 9 8the growth in the u.s. in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was primarily due to increased volume, improved patient access and, for the first nine months of 2018, positive price impact.•the premarin family of products (eh):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $191 $224 (15)   $569$670 (15)  international 12 14 (14) (12) 36 41 (13) (14)worldwide revenues $204 $238 (15) (15) $605 $711 (15) (15)the worldwide operational declines in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were primarily driven by generic competition in the u.s. •viagra (eh): viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, beginning in 2018, total viagra revenues are reported in eh.  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $32 $198 (84)   $196 $687 (71)  international 105 111 (5) (3) 313 309 1 (1)worldwide revenues $137 $308 (55) (55) $509 $996 (49) (50)the declines in the u.s. in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were primarily due to the loss of exclusivity in december 2017.the operational decline in the third quarter of 2018 internationally was primarily driven by lower volumes in russia and turkey and pricing pressures in china, partially offset by increased demand in china and saudi arabia. •sulperazon (eh):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $— $— —   $— $— —  international 145 114 28 26 464 345 34 28worldwide revenues $145 $114 28 26 $464 $345 34 2879the international operational growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was primarily due to increased demand in china.•xtandi alliance revenues (ih): xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi. subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. pfizer and astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions—net).  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $180 $150 20   $510 $422 21  international — — — — — — — —worldwide revenues $180 $150 20 20 $510 $422 21 21the growth in the u.s. in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by continued growth of xtandi in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. while enrollment rates in patient assistance programs (pap), which provide free medicines to patients, fluctuate throughout the year, we have observed a reduction in pap utilization in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017.•xalkori (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $34 $49 (31)   $118 $170 (31)  international 93 96 (4) (2) 299 272 10 5worldwide revenues $127 $146 (13) (12) $417 $442 (6) (9)the worldwide operational declines in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were primarily due to volume declines in the alk indication across certain developed markets, primarily in the u.s. and certain markets in developed europe, due to competitive pressure. the declines were partially offset by a continued increase in diagnostic rates for the alk gene mutation across key markets and share in first-line alk treatment outside the u.s., primarily in certain emerging markets, as well as uptake in treatment of patients with metastatic nsclc whose tumors are ros1-positive. •celebrex (eh):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $16 $61 (73)   $50 $117 (57)  international 171 150 14 14 444 448 (1) (4)worldwide revenues $188 $212 (11) (11) $494 $564 (12) (15)the worldwide operational decline in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of the favorable u.s. rebates that occurred in the third quarter of 2017 and lower volumes in the u.s., as well as pricing pressure in mexico, partially offset by increased demand in china and japan. the worldwide operational decline in the first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of the favorable u.s. rebates that occurred in the third quarter of 2017, lower volumes in the u.s., japan and certain middle eastern markets, as well as pricing pressure in mexico, partially offset by increased demand in china. •inflectra/remsima (eh):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $71 $34 *   $189 $74 *  international 95 78 22 22 280 210 33 24worldwide revenues $166 $112 48 48 $469 $284 65 5880the worldwide operational growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was due to continued uptake in certain channels in the u.s., as well as in developed markets in europe, partially offset by pricing pressures in these markets.inflectra uptake in the u.s. is being driven by a number of factors including inflectra’s clinical data package, price and the access/reimbursement environment. to date, reimbursement coverage has been mixed. while we achieved 100% medicare coverage, we have experienced access challenges among commercial payers where our lower priced product has not received access at parity to the innovator product and remains in a disadvantaged position despite the higher price of innovator product. we will look at all relevant factors impacting reimbursement given our extensive experience working with commercial payers to enable greater access for inflectra. additionally, in september 2017, pfizer filed suit in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against j&j alleging that j&j’s exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning remicade® (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws.•inlyta (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $27 $30 (10)   $88 $95 (7)  international 44 53 (18) (15) 138 161 (14) (16)worldwide revenues $71 $84 (15) (13) $226 $256 (12) (13)the worldwide operational decline in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to increased competition across developed markets. the worldwide operational decline in the first nine months of 2018 was primarily due to increased competition across developed markets, as well as china.•eucrisa (ih):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $40 $15 *   $104 $33 *  international — — — — — — — —worldwide revenues $40 $15 * * $104 $33 * *the worldwide operational growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was primarily driven by broader prescriber trial and adoption, as well as growing patient awareness and interest.•alliance revenues (ih/eh):  three months ended nine months ended      % change     % change(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper. september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 total oper.u.s. $642 $507 26   $1,901 $1,487 28  international 336 234 44 43 919 624 47 39worldwide revenues $977 $741 32 32 $2,820 $2,112 34 31the worldwide operational growth in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was mainly due to increases in eliquis and xtandi alliance revenues discussed above.◦bavencio (ih) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. both companies jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-pd-l1 or anti-pd-1 products from this collaboration. bavencio is currently approved in metastatic mcc in the u.s., europe, japan, and selected other markets, as well as in second line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in the u.s.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13c. segment, geographic and other revenue information: other revenue information for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of the selected products discussed above.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. contingencies and certain commitments for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.81product developments—biopharmaceuticalwe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time.for additional information about our r&d organization, see the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook—our strategy—organizing for growth” and “—description of research and development operations” sections of this md&a. a comprehensive update of pfizer’s development pipeline was published as of october 30, 2018 and is available at www.pfizer.com/science/drug-product-pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for some candidates in phase 1 and all candidates from phase 2 through registration.the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedlorbrena (lorlatinib)treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic nsclc whose disease has progressed on crizotinib and at least one other alk inhibitor for metastatic disease; or whose disease has progressed on alectinib or ceritinib as the first alk inhibitor therapy for metastatic diseasenovember 2018talzenna (talazoparib)treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious germline brca-mutated (gbrcam) human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (her2)-negative locally advanced or metastatic breast canceroctober 2018vizimpro (dacomitinib)first-line treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with epidermal growth factor receptor exon 19 deletion or exon 21 l858r substitution mutations as detected by an fda-approved test, which is being developed in collaboration with sfjseptember 2018nivestym (filgrastim-aafi)(a)a biosimilar to neupogen® (filgrastim) for all eligible indications of the reference productjuly 2018xtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of men with non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with astellasjuly 2018xeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitismay 2018retacrit (epoetin alfa-epbx)(b)a biosimilar to epogen® and procrit® (epoetin alfa) for all indications of the reference productmay 2018steglatro (ertugliflozin)an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus, which is being developed in collaboration with merckdecember 2017segluromet (ertugliflozin and metformin)an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are not adequately controlled on a regimen containing ertugliflozin or metformin, or in patients who are already treated with both ertugliflozin and metformin, which is being developed in collaboration with merckdecember 2017steglujan (ertugliflozin and sitagliptin)an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both ertugliflozin and sitagliptin is appropriate, which is being developed in collaboration with merckdecember 2017bosulif (bosutinib)treatment of adult patients with newly-diagnosed chronic phase philadelphia chromosome-positive ph+ cml, which is being developed in collaboration with avilliondecember 2017xeljanz (tofacitinib) and xeljanz xrxeljanz 5 mg twice daily and xeljanz xr extended release 11 mg once daily for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate or other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugsdecember 2017sutent (sunitinib)adjuvant treatment in adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomy (surgical removal of the cancerous kidney)november 2017(a) neupogen® is a registered trademark of amgen inc.(b) epogen® is a registered u.s. trademark of amgen inc.; procrit® is a registered u.s. trademark of j&j.pending u.s. ndas and supplemental filingsproductproposed indicationdate filed*pf-05280586(a)a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)september 2018pf-06439535(b)a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)august 2018glasdegibtreatment of adult patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia in combination with low-dose cytarabine, a type of chemotherapyjune 2018pf-05280014(c)a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)august 2017tafamidis meglumine(d)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathyfebruary 2012*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen ma inc.(b) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(c) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc. in april 2018, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our biologics license application (bla) for pf-05280014, our proposed biosimilar to trastuzumab, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. the fda highlighted the need for additional technical information, which does not relate to safety or clinical data submitted in the application. in october 2018, the fda acknowledged for review our bla resubmission.82(d) in may 2012, the fda’s peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. pfizer has completed study b3461028, a global phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomyopathy, which includes patients with wild type and variant transthyretin. this study has achieved its primary endpoint, and we are working with the fda to identify next steps.regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*vyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)application filed in japan for treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (attr-cm)—november 2018xtandi (enzalutamide)application approved in the eu for treatment of adult men with high-risk non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with astellasoctober 2018—trastuzumab bs for i.v. infusion 60mg/150mg “pfizer”(a)application approved in japan for a biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)september 2018—lorbrena (lorlatinib)application approved in japan for the treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more alk inhibitorseptember 2018—pf-05280586(b)application filed in the eu for a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)—august 2018xeljanz (tofacitinib)application approved in the eu for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis who have had an inadequate response, lost response, or were intolerant to either conventional therapy or a biologic agentjuly 2018—trazimera(a)application approved in the eu for a biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab) for the treatment of human epidermal growth factor (her2) overexpressing breast cancer and her2 overexpressing metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinomajuly 2018—infliximab bs for i.v. infusion 100mg “pfizer”(c)application approved in japan for a biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)july 2018—xeljanz (tofacitinib)application approved in the eu for xeljanz in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapyjune 2018—talazoparibapplication filed in the eu for the treatment of patients with germline brca-mutated advanced breast cancer—june 2018xeljanz (tofacitinib)application approved in japan for the treatment of ulcerative colitismay 2018—dacomitinibapplication filed in japan for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj—may 2018crisaboroleapplication filed in the eu for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis—may 2018mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)application approved in the eu for treatment of patients age 15 years and above with previously untreated, de novo, cd33-positive acute myeloid leukemia, except acute promyelocytic leukemiaapril 2018—bosulif (bosutinib)application approved in the eu for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed chronic phase philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (ph+ cml), which is being developed in collaboration with avillionapril 2018—dacomitinibapplication filed in the eu for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with egfr activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj—march 2018steglatro (ertugliflozin)approval in the eu as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus:•as monotherapy in patients for whom the use of metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contraindications; and•in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2018—segluromet (ertugliflozin and metformin)approval in the eu as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus:•in patients not adequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone;•in patients on their maximally tolerated doses of metformin in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes; and•in patients already being treated with the combination of ertugliflozin and metformin as separate tablets, which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2018—steglujan (ertugliflozin and sitagliptin)approval in the eu as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus:•when metformin and/or a sulphonylurea (su) and one of the monocomponents of steglujan do not provide adequate glycaemic control; and •in patients already being treated with the combination of ertugliflozin and sitagliptin as separate tablets, which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2018—pf-06439535(d)application filed in the eu for a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)—march 2018xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in the eu for modified release 11mg tablet for rheumatoid arthritis—march 2018lorlatinib (pf-06463922)application filed in the eu for the treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more alk inhibitors—february 2018besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin)approval in japan for the treatment of relapsed or refractory cd 22- positive acute lymphoblastic leukemiajanuary 2018—*for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the ema validated our submissions.(a) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(b) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen ma inc.83(c) remicade® is a registered japan trademark of janssen. in february 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of pf-06438179, a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the eea to sandoz, which was a condition to the european commission’s approval of the hospira transaction. we retain commercialization rights to pf-06438179 in all countries outside of the eea.(d) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductproposed indicationbavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1, in combination with inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor,for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration withmerck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1, in combination with talazoparib in patients with previously untreated advanced ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lungcancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)(a)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer,which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of ovarian cancer, which is beingdeveloped in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patientswith urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of thehead and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyibrance (palbociclib)treatment of her2+ advanced breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llcibrance (palbociclib)treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the german breast groupibrance (palbociclib)treatment of hr+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llc, and the austrian breast colorectal cancer study groupxeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of ankylosing spondylitisxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of non-metastatic high risk hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with astellasxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with astellasvyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathy (ex-japan)(a) in february 2018, we and our partner merck kgaa, darmstadt, germany, announced that the bavencio phase 3 trial in second-line nsclc did not meet its pre-specified primary endpoint. we are continuing to further evaluate the detailed results.new drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateproposed indicationglasdegib (pf-0444913)a smoothened inhibitor for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemialorlatinib (pf-06463922)a next generation alk/ros1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with alk-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancerfidanacogene elaparvovec (pf-06838435)an investigational gene therapy for the treatment of hemophilia bpf-04965842a janus kinase 1 (jak1) inhibitor for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitispf-06425090a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent clostridium difficile colitispf-06410293(a)a potential biosimilar to humira® (adalimumab)rivipansel (gmi-1070)a pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from glycomimetics inc.somatrogon (pf-06836922)a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in children, which is being developed in collaboration with opkosomatrogon (pf-06836922)a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with opkotalazoparib (mdv3800)an oral parp inhibitor for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancertanezumaban anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with lilly(a) humira® is a registered trademark of abbvie biotechnology ltd.additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.84costs and expensesthe changes in expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the february 2017 sale of his. the operating results of his are included in our operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for the third quarter of 2017 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, while the first nine months of 2017 reflect approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations. our operating results for 2018 do not reflect any his global operations.cost of sales  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 % change september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 % changecost of sales $2,694 $2,844 (5) $8,173 $7,972 3as a percentage of revenues 20.3% 21.6%   20.6% 20.5%  cost of sales decreased 5% in the third quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $212 million and the favorable impact of hedging activity on intercompany inventory of $18 million;•lower volumes driven by the sip portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s., as well as generic competition in developed markets; and•the non-recurrence of $55 million in inventory losses, overhead costs, and incremental costs related to the period in 2017 during which our puerto rico plants were not operational due to hurricanes,partially offset by:•increased sales volumes for various key products within our product portfolio;•higher costs across the sip portfolio, as a result of the complexity of high quality product manufacture across the legacy hospira plants; and•an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold.cost of sales increased 3% in the first nine months of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:•the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $157 million and the unfavorable impact of hedging activity on intercompany inventory of $114 million;•increased sales volumes for various key products within our product portfolio; and•an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold,partially offset by:•lower volumes driven by the sip portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s., as well as generic competition in developed markets;•the non-recurrence of $55 million in inventory losses, overhead costs, and incremental costs related to the period in 2017 during which our puerto rico plants were not operational due to hurricanes; and•the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in 2017.the decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter of 2018 and the slight increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues for the first nine months of 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, was primarily due to all of the factors discussed above, as well as an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales.selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 % change september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,494 $3,504 — $10,448 $10,249 2as a percentage of revenues 26.3% 26.6%   26.3% 26.4%  si&a expenses remained relatively flat in the third quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:•lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives;•lower general and administrative expenses;•lower healthcare reform expenses as a result of a true up of the prior year amount; and85•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $24 million,largely offset by:•additional investment across several of our key products, primarily xeljanz, eucrisa, eliquis and prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (pediatric indication); and•additional investments in china.si&a expenses increased 2% in the first nine months of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:•additional investment across several of our key products, primarily xeljanz, eucrisa, ibrance, prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (pediatric indication) and eliquis; •the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $152 million; •a special, one-time bonus paid to virtually all pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $119 million, in the aggregate, in the first quarter of 2018; and •additional investments in china,partially offset by:•lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives;•lower general and administrative expenses;•lower healthcare reform expenses as a result of a true up of the prior year amount; and•decreased investment in enbrel due to loss of exclusivity across developed europe. research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %change september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %changeresearch and development expenses $2,008 $1,865 8 $5,549 $5,367 3as a percentage of revenues 15.1% 14.2%   14.0% 13.8% r&d expenses increased 8% in the third quarter and 3% the first nine months of 2018, compared to the same periods in 2017, due to:•increased costs associated with:–our oncology portfolio, including costs associated with bavencio studies; –our phase 3 clinical trial related to our jak1 inhibitor (which was initiated in december 2017), as well as, in the first nine months of 2018, our phase 3 clinical trial related to the c. difficile vaccine program (which was initiated in march 2017); •an increase in the value of the portfolio performance share grants reflecting changes in the price of pfizer’s common stock, as well as management’s assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved;•the timing of milestone activity; and•increased spend on our rare disease portfolio,partially offset by:•decreased spending for biosimilars as several programs have reached completion; •lower costs due to the completion of certain tanezumab studies;•the phase out of the lyrica clinical studies; and•the impact of our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts.for additional information on cost of sales, si&a and r&d expenses by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.amortization of intangible assets  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %change september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %changeamortization of intangible assets $1,253 $1,177 6 $3,640 $3,571 2as a percentage of revenues 9.4% 8.9%   9.2% 9.2%  see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.86restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 %change sep 30, 2018 oct 1, 2017 %changerestructuring charges—acquisition-related costs(a) $24 $70 (66) $5 $80 (94)restructuring credits—cost reduction initiatives(b) (22) (15) 54 (37) (52) (29)restructuring charges/(credits) 1 56 (98) (32) 28 *transaction costs(c) 1 (14) * 1 4 (59)integration costs(c) 82 73 13 202 235 (14)restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 85 114 (26) 172 267 (36)net periodic benefit costs(d) 41 35 16 103 110 (7)additional depreciation—asset restructuring 12 39 (69) 43 74 (42)total implementation costs 48 57 (16) 130 150 (13)costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(e) $186 $245 (24) $447 $601 (26)* calculation not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%.(a) restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. charges for the third quarter of 2018 were primarily due to accruals for exit costs and asset write downs related to our acquisition of hospira, and charges for the first nine months of 2018 were primarily due to asset write downs related to our acquisition of hospira, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs related to our acquisition of hospira. restructuring charges for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 were mainly related to our acquisitions of hospira and medivation. (b) restructuring credits––cost reduction initiatives relate to employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs not associated with acquisitions. for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 and 2017, the credits are mostly related to the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs.(c) for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.(d) for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards and note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.(e) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses, selling, informational and administrative expenses and/or other (income)/deductions––net as appropriate. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.in connection with our acquisition of hospira in september 2015, we focused our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. we achieved our $1 billion of annual cost savings in connection with the hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million. the one-time costs to generate the savings are expected to be approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million associated with the return of acquired ipr&d rights), and the majority of these costs were incurred within the three-year period post-acquisition.new cost-reduction/productivity initiatives—2017 through 2019 activitiesas a result of the evaluation performed in connection with our decision in september 2016 to not pursue, at that time, splitting ih and eh into two separate publicly-traded companies, we identified new opportunities to potentially achieve greater optimization and efficiency to become more competitive in our business. therefore, in early 2017, we initiated new enterprise-wide cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, which we expect to substantially complete by the end of 2019. these initiatives encompass all areas of our cost base and include further centralization of our corporate and platform functions and optimization of our manufacturing plant network to support ih and eh products and pipelines, as well as activities in other areas where opportunities are identified. the action plans related to these new initiatives are underway and, in order to achieve targeted savings of approximately $1.4 billion by 2020, we expect to incur total costs of approximately $1.2 billion over the three-year period, 2017-2019. of this amount, we expect about 60% to be manufacturing operations related and we expect about 20% of the total charges will be non-cash. for additional information about these programs and expected and actual total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. the expected cost savings in 2018 associated with these activities are reflected in our 2018 financial guidance.87in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.other (income)/deductions—net  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %change september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %changeother (income)/deductions––net $(414) $79 * $(1,143) $65 ** calculation not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%.for information about the components of other (income)/deductions—net, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.provision for taxes on income  three months ended nine months ended  (millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %change september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %changeprovision for taxes on income $66 $727 (91) $1,270 $2,287 (44)effective tax rate on continuing operations 1.6% 20.3%   9.9% 20.1%  for information about our effective tax rate and the events and circumstances contributing to the changes between periods, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. because adjusted income is an important internal measurement for pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income, certain components of adjusted income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (otc) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. also, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2017 financial report for additional information. similarly, we have defined the adjusted income components as cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of intangible assets and other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. we have defined adjusted diluted earnings per share as earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure, the adjusted income component measures and the adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for u.s. gaap net income, u.s. gaap net income components or u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share. the following are examples of how the adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2017 financial report for additional information.adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-gaap financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. because of their 88non-standardized definitions, adjusted income and its components (unlike u.s. gaap net income and its components) and adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. a limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a publicly-traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans.see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 and 2017 below.purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with wyeth (acquired in 2009), hospira (acquired in 2015), anacor (acquired in june 2016) and medivation (acquired in september 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. for example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation, such as the tcja discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. contingencies 89and certain commitments: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.reconciliations of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  three months ended september 30, 2018in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $13,298 $— $— $— $— $13,298cost of sales 2,694 1 (3) — (19) 2,673selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,494 — — — (23) 3,471research and development expenses 2,008 1 — — (11) 1,998amortization of intangible assets 1,253 (1,182) — — — 71restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 85 — (107) — 22 —other (income)/deductions––net (414) (130) (2) — 244 (302)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 4,177 1,309 112 — (213) 5,386provision for taxes on income(b) 66 263 21 — 367 716income from continuing operations 4,111 1,047 91 — (580) 4,669discontinued operations––net of tax 11 — — (11) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 8 — — — — 8net income attributable to pfizer inc. 4,114 1,047 91 (11) (580) 4,661earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.69 0.17 0.02 — (0.10) 0.78  nine months ended september 30, 2018in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $39,670 $— $— $— $— $39,670cost of sales 8,173 (2) (9) — (77) 8,086selling, informational and administrative expenses 10,448 1 — — (185) 10,264research and development expenses 5,549 3 — — (26) 5,526amortization of intangible assets 3,640 (3,428) — — — 212restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 172 — (209) — 37 —other (income)/deductions––net (1,143) (238) (4) — 242 (1,143)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 12,831 3,665 221 — 8 16,725provision for taxes on income(b) 1,270 735 40 — 500 2,544income from continuing operations 11,562 2,930 182 — (492) 14,181discontinued operations––net of tax 10 — — (10) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 25 — — — — 25net income attributable to pfizer inc. 11,546 2,930 182 (10) (492) 14,156earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 1.92 0.49 0.03 — (0.08) 2.36see end of tables for notes (a) and (b).90  three months ended october 1, 2017in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $13,168 $— $— $— $— $13,168cost of sales 2,844 (28) (26) — (92) 2,696selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,504 — — — (22) 3,482research and development expenses 1,865 1 — — (9) 1,857amortization of intangible assets 1,177 (1,120) — — — 57restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 114 — (129) — 15 —other (income)/deductions––net 79 (7) — — (340) (268)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,585 1,154 155 — 449 5,343provision for taxes on income(b) 727 306 72 — 161 1,267income from continuing operations 2,858 848 83 — 288 4,077discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 18 — — — — 18net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,840 848 83 — 288 4,059earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.47 0.14 0.01 — 0.05 0.67  nine months ended october 1, 2017in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $38,843 $— $— $— $— $38,843cost of sales 7,972 (45) (38) — (168) 7,720selling, informational and administrative expenses 10,249 (15) — — (67) 10,167research and development expenses 5,367 7 — — (26) 5,348amortization of intangible assets 3,571 (3,438) — — — 133restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 267 — (319) — 52 —other (income)/deductions––net 65 (35) 10 — (588) (547)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 11,351 3,527 347 — 797 16,023provision for taxes on income(b) 2,287 990 137 — 263 3,677income from continuing operations 9,064 2,537 211 — 534 12,345discontinued operations––net of tax 1 — — (1) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 32 — — — — 32net income attributable to pfizer inc. 9,034 2,537 211 (1) 534 12,313earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 1.49 0.42 0.03 — 0.09 2.03(a) for details of adjustments, see “details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income” below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 13.3% in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 23.7% in the third quarter of 2017. the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 15.2% in the first nine months of 2018, compared to 22.9% in the first nine months of 2017. the decreases were primarily due to tax benefits associated with the december 2017 enactment of the tcja, a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, as well as an increase in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations.91details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017purchase accounting adjustments        amortization, depreciation and other(a) $1,310 $1,126 $3,662 $3,482cost of sales (1) 28 2 45total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 1,309 1,154 3,665 3,527income taxes(b) (263) (306) (735) (990)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 1,047 848 2,930 2,537acquisition-related costs        restructuring charges(c) 24 70 5 80transaction costs(c) 1 (14) 1 4integration costs(c) 82 73 202 235net periodic benefit costs/(credits) other than service costs(d) 2 — 4 (10)additional depreciation––asset restructuring(e) 3 26 9 38total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 112 155 221 347income taxes(f) (21) (72) (40) (137)total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 91 83 182 211discontinued operations        total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc.(g) (11) — (10) (1)certain significant items        restructuring credits––cost reduction initiatives(h) (22) (15) (37) (52)implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(i) 57 69 164 185certain legal matters, net(j) 37 183 (70) 191adjustments to loss on sale of his net assets(j) (2) (12) (1) 52certain asset impairments(j) — 127 31 127business and legal entity alignment costs(j) — 16 4 54other(k) (282) 81 (84) 239total certain significant items––pre-tax (213) 449 8 797income taxes(l) (367) (161) (500) (263)total certain significant items––net of tax (580) 288 (492) 534total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $547 $1,219 $2,610 $3,280(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate.(c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs. restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. restructuring charges for the three months ended september 30, 2018 were primarily due to accruals for exit costs and asset write downs related to our acquisition of hospira, and charges for the nine months ended september 30, 2018 were primarily due to asset write downs related to our acquisition of hospira, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs related to our acquisition of hospira. restructuring charges for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 were mainly related to our acquisitions of hospira and medivation. transaction costs represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.(d) amounts for the three and nine months ended october 1, 2017 represent the net periodic benefit credits, excluding service costs, reclassified to other (income)/deductions––net as a result of the retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards. these credits included a net settlement gain, partially offset by accelerated amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs upon the settlement of the remaining obligation associated with the hospira u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plan.(e) included in cost of sales. represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions.92(f) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate.(g) included in discontinued operations––net of tax.(h) amounts relate to employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs not associated with acquisitions, which are included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related cost (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three and nine months ended september 30, 2018 and october 1, 2017, the credits are mostly related to the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs.(i) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended september 30, 2018, included in cost of sales ($30 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($17 million) and research and development expenses ($9 million). for the three months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($38 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($22 million) and research and development expenses ($9 million). for the nine months ended september 30, 2018, included in cost of sales ($91 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($51 million) and research and development expenses ($22 million). for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($113 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($46 million) and research and development expenses ($26 million).(j) included in other (income)/deductions—net (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net).(k) for the three months ended september 30, 2018, primarily included in cost of sales ($12 million income), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($6 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($279 million income). for the nine months ended september 30, 2018, primarily included in cost of sales ($14 million income), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($134 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($206 million income). for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, includes, among other things, a non-cash $343 million pre-tax gain in other (income)/deductions––net associated with our transaction with bain capital to create a new biopharmaceutical company, cerevel, to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets primarily targeting disorders of the central nervous system. the first nine months of 2018 also includes (i) a $119 million charge, in the aggregate, in selling, informational and administrative expenses for a special, one-time bonus paid to virtually all pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, which was one of several actions taken by us after evaluating the expected positive net impact of the december 2017 enactment of the legislation commonly referred to as the tcja on us and (ii) a non-cash $50 million pre-tax gain in other (income)/deductions––net as a result of the contribution of our allogeneic chimeric antigen receptor t cell therapy development program assets in connection with our contribution agreement entered into with allogene (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2b. acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment: divestitures). for the three months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($54 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($26 million). for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($55 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($21 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($163 million). for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, includes $55 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which our puerto rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs, all of which resulted from hurricanes in puerto rico and are included in cost of sales. for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, also includes a net loss of $30 million related to the sale of our 40% ownership investment in teuto, including the extinguishment of a put option for the then remaining 60% ownership interest, which is included in other (income)/deductions––net. (l) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the three months and nine months ended september 30, 2018 were favorably impacted by the december 2017 enactment of the tcja, primarily related to certain tax initiatives, as well as favorable adjustments to the provisional estimate of the impact of the legislation. given the significant changes resulting from and complexities associated with the tcja, the estimated financial impacts recorded in 2017 remain provisional and are subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the tcja, which could result in further changes to these estimates in the fourth quarter of 2018. under guidance issued by the staff of the sec, we expect to finalize our accounting related to the tax effects of the tcja on deferred taxes, valuation allowances, state tax considerations, the repatriation tax liability, global intangible low-taxed income, and any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries during the fourth quarter of 2018, as we complete the remainder of our tax return filings and as any interpretations or clarifications of the tcja occur through legislation or u.s. treasury actions or other means.93analysis of operating segment informationthe following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments—the ih segment and the eh segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information, as well as the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” section of the md&a in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended april 1, 2018. as described in the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1a.basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: basis of presentation, the february 3, 2017 sale of his impacted our results of operations in 2017.the following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  third quarter of 2018(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $8,471 $4,826 $— $13,298 $— $13,298cost of sales 981 1,413 279 2,673 21 2,694% of revenue 11.6%29.3%*20.1%*20.3%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,695 663 1,114 3,471 23 3,494research and development expenses 695 225 1,078 1,998 10 2,008amortization of intangible assets 57 20 (6) 71 1,182 1,253restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 85 85other (income)/deductions––net (345) (22) 65 (302) (112) (414)income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $5,388 $2,527 $(2,530) $5,386 $(1,208) $4,177  nine months ended september 30, 2018(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $24,573 $15,097 $— $39,670 $— $39,670cost of sales 3,049 4,442 595 8,086 87 8,173% of revenue 12.4% 29.4% * 20.4% * 20.6%selling, informational and administrative expenses 4,967 1,909 3,388 10,264 183 10,448research and development expenses 1,882 683 2,961 5,526 23 5,549amortization of intangible assets 165 47 — 212 3,428 3,640restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 172 172other (income)/deductions––net (909) (117) (117) (1,143) — (1,143)income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $15,419 $8,133 $(6,827) $16,725 $(3,894) $12,831  third quarter of 2017(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $8,118 $5,050 $— $13,168 $— $13,168cost of sales 1,082 1,448 167 2,696 147 2,844% of revenue 13.3%28.7%*20.5%*21.6%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,619 693 1,171 3,482 22 3,504research and development expenses 634 250 973 1,857 8 1,865amortization of intangible assets 40 17 — 57 1,120 1,177restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 114 114other (income)/deductions––net (256) (158) 147 (268) 347 79income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $5,000 $2,801 $(2,457) $5,343 $(1,759) $3,585see end of tables for notes (a) through (d).94  nine months ended october 1, 2017(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $23,204 $15,639 $— $38,843 $— $38,843cost of sales 2,912 4,319 489 7,720 252 7,972% of revenue 12.6% 27.6% * 19.9% * 20.5%selling, informational and administrative expenses 4,598 2,103 3,467 10,167 82 10,249research and development expenses 1,694 760 2,894 5,348 20 5,367amortization of intangible assets 90 43 — 133 3,438 3,571restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 267 267other (income)/deductions––net (623) (258) 334 (547) 613 65income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $14,534 $8,672 $(7,183) $16,023 $(4,671) $11,351*indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%.(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment.the following organizational change impacted our operating segments in 2018:effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain costs for pfizer’s stratco group, which were previously reported in the operating results of our operating segments and corporate, are reported in other unallocated. stratco costs primarily include headcount costs, vendor costs and data costs largely in support of pfizer’s commercial operations. the majority of the stratco costs reflect additional amounts that our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. the reporting change was made to streamline accountability and speed decision making. in the third quarter of 2017, we reclassified approximately $125 million of costs from ih, approximately $36 million of costs from eh and approximately $19 million of costs from corporate to other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation. in the first nine months of 2017, we reclassified approximately $344 million of costs from ih, approximately $114 million of costs from eh and approximately $40 million of costs from corporate to other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation.(b) other comprises the costs included in our adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following:  third quarter of 2018  other business activities   (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 21 258 279selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 950 164 1,114research and development expenses 550 193 318 16 1,078amortization of intangible assets — — — (6) (6)restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (6) (1) 47 26 65loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(543) $(192) $(1,337) $(457) $(2,530)  nine months ended september 30, 2018  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 149 446 595selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 2,881 507 3,388research and development expenses 1,664 579 672 46 2,961amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (110) (4) (69) 65 (117)loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(1,554) $(575) $(3,633) $(1,064) $(6,827)95  third quarter of 2017  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 27 139 167selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 980 191 1,171research and development expenses 570 195 189 20 973amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (4) (1) 167 (15) 147loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(566) $(193) $(1,363) $(335) $(2,457)  nine months ended october 1, 2017  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — (4) 493 489selling, informational and administrative expenses — (1) 2,965 502 3,467research and development expenses 1,680 565 609 39 2,894amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (36) (4) 338 36 334loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(1,644) $(561) $(3,908) $(1,070) $(7,183)(i) wrd—the r&d expenses managed by our wrd organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our ih business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the ih segment via the gpd organization for possible clinical and commercial development. r&d spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. the wrd organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, including eh r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities.(ii) gpd––the costs associated with our gpd organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects.(iii) corporate––the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance and worldwide procurement), the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations, as well as certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments. effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain costs for stratco, which were previously reported in the operating results of our operating segments and corporate, are reported in other unallocated. for additional information, see note (iv) below. we recognized a $14 million loss in the third quarter of 2018 and a $47 million gain in the first nine months of 2018 as an offset to cost of sales primarily related to euro-denominated forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated forecasted intercompany inventory sales. we recognized a $4 million loss in the third quarter of 2017 and a $67 million gain in the first nine months of 2017 as a reduction to cost of sales related to euro, japanese yen and u.k. pound-denominated forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated forecasted intercompany inventory sales. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7f. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.(iv) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs (which include manufacturing variances associated with production). in connection with the stratco reporting change, in the third quarter of 2017, we reclassified approximately $125 million of costs from ih, approximately $36 million of costs from eh and approximately $19 million of costs from corporate to other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation. in the first nine months of 2017, we reclassified approximately $344 million of costs from ih, approximately $114 million of costs from eh and approximately $40 million of costs from corporate to other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation.for information purposes only, the following tables present reconciliations of our segment operating results to segment operating results including estimated other costs generally associated with each segment. while we do not manage our segments or have performance goals under such an allocated manner, we believe that some investors may find this information useful in their analyses.the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 96for information purposes only, for the first nine months of 2018, we estimate that other costs, as described above, for combined wrd and gpd costs of $2.1 billion, and combined corporate and other unallocated costs of $4.4 billion after excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $730 million for the first nine months of 2018 in other (income)/deductions––net); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $442 million for the first nine months of 2018 in other (income)/deductions––net), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows:nine months ended september 30, 2018estimated other costs associated with ih(ii)(millions of dollars)innovative health non-gaap adjusted(i), (iii)estimated wrd/gpd(ii)estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii)innovative health with estimated other costs associated withinnovative healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues$24,573$—$—$24,573cost of sales3,049—813,130selling, informational and administrative expenses4,967—1,9186,886research and development expenses1,8822,2196584,760amortization of intangible assets165—(4)161restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs————other (income)/deductions––net(909)(113)(213)(1,235)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income15,419(2,106)(2,441)10,872nine months ended september 30, 2018estimated other costs associated with eh(ii)(millions of dollars)essential healthnon-gaap adjusted(i), (iii)estimated wrd/gpd(ii)estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii)essential health with estimated other costs associated withessential healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues$15,097$—$—$15,097cost of sales4,442—5144,956selling, informational and administrative expenses1,909—1,4693,379research and development expenses6832460767amortization of intangible assets47—451restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs————other (income)/deductions––net(117)—(78)(195)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income8,133(24)(1,969)6,141(i) amount represents the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. see note (a) above for more information.(ii) represents costs not assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. for a description of these other costs and business activities, see note (b) above.•wrd/gpd––the information provided for wrd and gpd was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the r&d projects associated with each operating segment. •corporate/other unallocated––the information provided for corporate and other unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from research and development and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification and estimates. management believes that the allocations of corporate and other unallocated costs are reasonable.the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented.(iii) see note (c) below for an explanation of our non-gaap adjusted financial measure.(c) see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a for a definition of these “adjusted income” components.(d) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as restructuring or legal charges), that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.97third quarter of 2018 vs. third quarter of 2017innovative health operating segmentrevenuesih revenues increased $353 million, or 4%, to $8.5 billion, reflecting an operational increase of $426 million, or 5%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $73 million, or 1%.the following provides an analysis of the increase in ih worldwide revenues:(millions of dollars)  ih revenues, for the three months ended october 1, 2017 $8,118   operational growth/(decline):  continued growth from certain key brands(a) 660growth from recently launched products, including eucrisa in the u.s., as well as besponsa and bavencio, primarily in the u.s. and developed europe 52negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017 and the resulting shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues from ih to eh at the beginning of 2018 (206)lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition (65)other operational factors, net (15)operational growth, net 426   unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (73)ih revenues increase 353ih revenues, for the three months ended september 30, 2018 $8,471(a) certain key brands represent eliquis, ibrance, prevnar 13/prevenar 13, xeljanz and xtandi. see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues––selected product discussion” section of this md&a for product analysis information.total ih revenues from emerging markets increased $78 million, or 7%, to $1.2 billion from $1.1 billion, reflecting 14% operational growth. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 7% on total ih revenues from emerging markets.costs and expenses•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 1.7 percentage points, primarily driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange.•the decrease in cost of sales of 9% was primarily driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by an increase in sales volumes for various key products within our product portfolio and an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold.•the increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 5% was primarily driven by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily xeljanz, eucrisa, eliquis and prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (pediatric indication), partially offset by lower healthcare reform expenses as a result of a true up of a prior year amount, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange.•the increase in research and development expenses of 10% primarily reflects:◦increased costs for our rare disease portfolio;◦increased costs associated with our phase 3 clinical trial related to our jak1 inhibitor (which was initiated in december 2017); and◦increased costs across the oncology portfolio, including costs associated with bavencio studies,partially offset by:◦lower costs due to the completion of certain tanezumab studies.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects: ◦a $36 million increase in dividend income from our investment in viiv;◦a $33 million increase in income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights; and◦a $14 million increase in xtandi royalty income.98essential health operating segmentrevenueseh revenues decreased $223 million, or 4%, to $4.8 billion, reflecting an operational decrease of $183 million, or 4%, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $40 million, or 1%. the following provides an analysis of the decrease in eh worldwide revenues:(millions of dollars)eh revenues, for the three months ended october 1, 2017$5,050operational growth/(decline):decline from the peri-loe products portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets (excluding viagra eh), primarily due to expected declines in lyrica in developed europe(125)decline in the lep portfolio primarily driven by lower revenues in developed markets (121)decline from the sip portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (28)positive impact of viagra, mostly driven by the shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues from ih to eh at the beginning of 2018 (due to the loss of exclusivity of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017), partially offset by lower revenues in emerging markets and developed europe markets (previously reported in eh) 37growth from biosimilars, primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s., as well as in developed europe56other operational factors, net (2)operational decline, net(183) unfavorable impact of foreign exchange(40)eh revenues decrease(223)eh revenues, for the three months ended september 30, 2018$4,826total eh revenues from emerging markets increased $149 million, or 9%, to $1.9 billion from $1.7 billion, reflecting 11% operational growth, primarily driven by 11% operational growth from the lep portfolio and 14% operational growth from the sip portfolio, partially offset by a 2% operational decline from the peri-loe products portfolio. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 3% on total eh revenues from emerging markets.costs and expenses•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 0.6 percentage points, primarily due to: ◦higher sales volumes of inflectra in the u.s. and developed europe, which carry higher product costs; and◦lower sales volumes and margins as a result of product losses of exclusivity and generic competition in developed markets, partially offset by:◦the favorable impact of foreign exchange; and◦lower sales volumes in the sip portfolio, which carries a higher cost to produce, in developed markets, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s.•the decrease in cost of sales of 2% was primarily due to:◦the favorable impact of foreign exchange; and◦lower sales volumes driven by product losses of exclusivity and generic competition in developed markets,partially offset by:◦higher sales volumes of inflectra in the u.s. and developed europe, which carry higher product costs; and◦higher costs across the sip portfolio, as a result of the complexity of high quality product manufacturing across the legacy hospira plants. •selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 4% mainly due to lower general and administrative expenses, as well as lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by additional investments in china. •research and development expenses decreased 10% primarily due to decreased spending for biosimilars as several programs have reached completion.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the non-recurrence of income from resolution of a contract disagreement, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and the non-recurrence of a gain on the redemption of an acquired bond in 2017, partially offset by an increase in income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights.99first nine months of 2018 vs. first nine months of 2017innovative health operating segment revenuesih revenues increased $1.4 billion, or 6%, to $24.6 billion, reflecting an operational increase of $1.0 billion, or 4%, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $342 million, or 2%.the following provides an analysis of the increase in ih worldwide revenues:(millions of dollars)  ih revenues, for the nine months ended october 1, 2017 $23,204   operational growth/(decline):  continued growth from certain key brands(a) 1,835growth from recently launched products, including eucrisa in the u.s., as well as besponsa and bavencio, primarily in the u.s. and developed europe 172negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017 and the resulting shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues from ih to eh at the beginning of 2018 (711)lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition (279)other operational factors, net 11operational growth, net 1,028   favorable impact of foreign exchange 342ih revenues increase 1,370ih revenues, for the nine months ended september 30, 2018 $24,573(a) certain key brands represent eliquis, ibrance, xeljanz, prevnar 13/prevenar 13, xtandi and chantix/champix. see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues––selected product discussion” section of this md&a for product analysis information.total ih revenues from emerging markets increased $456 million, or 15%, to $3.6 billion from $3.1 billion, reflecting a 16% operational increase. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on total ih revenues from emerging markets.costs and expenses•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 0.1 percentage points, primarily driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by an unfavorable change in product mix. the unfavorable product mix, which includes the unfavorable impact of the reclassification of viagra ih to eh in 2018, is partially offset by an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales.•the increase in cost of sales of 5% was primarily driven by an increase in sales volumes for various key products within our product portfolio, and an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange.•the increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 8% was primarily driven by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily xeljanz, eucrisa, ibrance, prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (pediatric indication) and eliquis, partially offset by lower healthcare reform expenses as a result of a true up of a prior year amount and decreased investment in enbrel due to loss of exclusivity across developed europe.•the increase in research and development expenses of 11% primarily reflects:◦increased costs associated with our phase 3 clinical trials related to our jak1 inhibitor (which was initiated in december 2017) and the c. difficile vaccine program (which was initiated in march 2017);◦increased costs across the oncology portfolio, including costs associated with bavencio studies; and◦increased costs for our rare disease portfolio, partially offset by:◦lower costs due to the completion of certain clinical studies, including tanezumab and lyrica.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects:◦a $188 million increase in income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights; ◦a $45 million increase in xtandi royalty income; and◦a $14 million increase in dividend income from our investment in viiv.100essential health operating segmentrevenueseh revenues decreased $542 million, or 3%, to $15.1 billion, reflecting an operational decrease of $894 million, or 6%, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $352 million, or 2%.the following provides an analysis of the decrease in eh worldwide revenues:(millions of dollars)  eh revenues, for the nine months ended october 1, 2017 $15,639   operational growth/(decline):  decline from the peri-loe products portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets (excluding viagra eh), primarily due to expected declines in lyrica in developed europe and pristiq in the u.s. due to generic competition (463)decline from the sip portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (419)decline in the lep portfolio primarily driven by lower revenues in developed markets (314)impact on financial results for the sale of his in february 2017. the first nine months of 2018 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the same period in 2017 (97)positive impact of viagra, mostly driven by the shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues from ih to eh at the beginning of 2018 (due to the loss of exclusivity of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017), partially offset by lower revenues in developed europe markets (previously reported in eh) 216growth from biosimilars, primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s., as well as in developed europe 165other operational factors, net 19operational decline, net (894)   favorable impact of foreign exchange 352eh revenues decrease (542)eh revenues, for the nine months ended september 30, 2018 $15,097total eh revenues from emerging markets increased $680 million, or 13%, to $5.8 billion from $5.1 billion, primarily driven by 11% operational growth from the lep portfolio and 13% operational growth from the sip portfolio, partially offset by a 2% operational decline from the peri-loe products portfolio. foreign exchange had a favorable impact of 2% on total eh revenues from emerging markets. costs and expensesthe changes in eh expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the february 2017 sale of his. the operating results of his are included in eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for eh for the first nine months of 2017 include approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations. operating results for eh for the first nine months of 2018 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 1.8 percentage points, primarily due to:◦higher sales volume of inflectra in the u.s. and developed europe, and higher pfizer centreone sales volumes, both of which carry higher product costs;◦lower sales volumes and margins as a result of product losses of exclusivity and generic competition in developed markets; and◦the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by:◦lower sales volumes in the sip portfolio, which carries a higher cost to produce, in developed markets, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s.; and◦the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in 2017. •the increase in cost of sales of 3% was primarily due to:◦higher sales volumes of inflectra in the u.s. and developed europe, and higher pfizer centreone sales volumes, both of which carry higher product costs; and◦the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by:◦lower sales volumes driven by product losses of exclusivity and generic competition in developed markets; and◦the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in 2017.101•selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 9% mainly due to lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by additional investments in china and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.•research and development expenses decreased 10%, primarily due to decreased spending for biosimilars as several programs have reached completion.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the non-recurrence of income from resolution of a contract disagreement, the non-recurrence of a gain on the redemption of an acquired bond in 2017 and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by an increase in income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomechanges in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 reflect the following: •for foreign currency translation adjustments, net, the third quarter of 2018 primarily reflects the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the chinese renminbi, u.k. pound and australian dollar, and for the first nine months of 2018, primarily reflects the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the u.k. pound, turkish lira and brazilian real, partially offset by the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the japanese yen.•for unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value re-measurements and the reclassification of amounts into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies––adoption of new accounting standards and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for benefit plans: actuarial gains/(losses), net, the third quarter of 2018 primarily reflects (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in other comprehensive income, (ii) the favorable impact of foreign exchange, (iii) settlement activity and (iv) an $8 million reduction in the plan liability due to an interim re-measurement. for the first nine months of 2018, primarily reflects (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in other comprehensive income, (ii) a $92 million reduction in the plan liability due to an interim re-measurement, (iii) settlement activity and (iv) the favorable impact of foreign exchange. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for benefit plans: prior service costs and other, net, the third quarter and the first nine months of 2018 reflect the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) amortization of changes in prior service costs and credits previously recognized in other comprehensive income and (ii) curtailment activity. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for tax provision/(benefit) on other comprehensive income/(loss), the first nine months of 2018 reflect the reclassification of the stranded tax amounts related to the tcja from aoci to retained earnings, which was recorded in the first quarter of 2018. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies––adoption of new accounting standards and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5d.tax matters: tax provision/(benefit) on other comprehensive income/(loss).analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.for information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.for information related to changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 6. accumulated other comprehensive loss, excluding noncontrolling interests. the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of september 30, 2018, compared to december 31, 2017, generally reflect, among other things, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards in the first quarter of 2018. the following explanations exclude the impact of foreign exchange and the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards in the first quarter of 2018 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—102note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards for additional information).•for trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business.•for inventories, the change reflects the increases for certain products to meet targeted levels in the normal course of business, including inventory build for supply recovery, network strategy and new product launches. •for other current assets, the change reflects an increase in receivables associated with derivative financial instruments, partially offset by the receipt of a milestone payment related to the first marketing authorization for ertugliflozin (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2d. acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment: collaborative arrangements).•for pp&e, the change primarily reflects capital additions in the normal course of business, partially offset by depreciation during the period.•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change primarily reflects amortization for the period, partially offset by an intangible asset recorded in connection with the eu approval of mylotarg (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets).•for trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business.•for other current liabilities, the change reflects a decrease in liabilities associated with:◦payments for contingent consideration obligations;◦payments to settle certain legal and product liability obligations;◦payments for restructuring activities;◦payments for the current portion of obligations recorded in connection with the u.s. approval of bosulif, and the eu and u.s. approvals of besponsa (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7e. financial instruments: other noncurrent liabilities); and ◦payables related to derivative financial instruments,partially offset by increases related to:◦payments and accruals in the normal course of business; and◦reclassifications from noncurrent liabilities.•for pension benefit obligations, net, the decrease primarily reflects a voluntary pension contribution, direct employer benefit payments, and an interim re-measurement in a u.s. non-qualified plan. •for other noncurrent liabilities, the change reflects an increase in liabilities associated with:◦an increase in payables, associated with derivative financial instruments;◦an increase in liabilities associated with the sale-leaseback of our new york headquarters (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12c. contingencies and certain commitments: certain commitments for additional information); and◦a change in the fair value of contingent consideration (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net),partially offset by:◦reclassifications to current liabilities.•for treasury stock, the change reflects $4.0 billion paid to citibank in march 2018 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement as well as open market share repurchases. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12c. contingencies and certain commitments: certain commitments for additional information.103analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows  nine months ended  (millions of dollars)september 30, 2018 october 1, 2017 %changecash provided by/(used in):     operating activities$11,089 $9,713 14investing activities5,289 19 *financing activities(14,034) (9,607) 46effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents (116) 67 *net increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents $2,227 $193 ** calculation not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%.in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $11.1 billion in the first nine months of 2018, compared to $9.7 billion in the same period in 2017. the increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects an increase in net cash generated from net income. the net cash generated reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business. in the first nine months of 2018, the change in the line item other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items:•unrealized net gains on equity securities resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard on january 1, 2018 related to financial assets and liabilities (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards);•a non-cash gain associated with our transaction with bain capital to create a new biopharmaceutical company to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment: divestitures); and•a non-cash gain on the contribution of pfizer’s allogeneic car t developmental program assets, in connection with our contribution agreement with allogene (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2b. acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment: divestitures),partially offset by:•net losses on foreign exchange contracts hedging a portion of our forecasted intercompany inventory sales (that fixes the cost of inventory sold later to customers); and •a decrease in gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment.in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and noncurrent liabilities.for additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” in this md&a. investing activitiesour net cash provided by investing activities was $5.3 billion in the first nine months of 2018, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $19 million in the same period in 2017. the increase in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to:•an increase in net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $4.5 billion in 2018 for cash needs; and•a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $1.0 billion due to the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business and substantially all of the remaining consideration for the medivation acquisition in 2017 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. 104acquisition, divestitures, licensing arrangements, collaborative arrangements and privately held investment: acquisition).financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $14.0 billion in the first nine months of 2018, compared to $9.6 billion in the same period in 2017. the increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•$3.2 billion less proceeds raised from short-term borrowings in the first nine months of 2018, compared to the first nine months of 2017; and•higher purchases of common stock of $2.2 billion, partially offset by: •lower repayments on long-term debt of $1.4 billion.analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. we continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. we target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our r&d activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;•share repurchases;•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both s&p and moody’s. see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities.selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) september 30, 2018 december 31, 2017selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $3,559 $1,342short-term investments(a) 13,680 18,650long-term investments(a) 6,444 7,015  23,684 27,007debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 7,385 9,953long-term debt 33,652 33,538  41,037 43,491selected net financial liabilities(b) $(17,353) $(16,484)     working capital(c) $12,569 $10,714ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.43:1 1.35:1total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity per common share(d) $12.21 $11.93(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) the increase in selected net financial liabilities was primarily driven by the decrease in short-term investments used for cash needs, partially offset by the repayment of debt. we retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high-quality 105financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. both moody’s and s&p rating agencies maintained our strong investment-grade corporate debt rating subsequent to the acquisitions of medivation and anacor. for additional information, see the “credit ratings” section of this md&a.(c) the increase in working capital was primarily due to:•the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business; •a decrease in short-term borrowings as a result of repayments of commercial paper; and•an increase in inventory related to increases for certain products to meet targeted levels in the normal course of business, including inventory build for supply recovery, network strategy and new product launches,partially offset by:•a decrease in short-term investments mainly driven by the financing requirements for share repurchase activities, dividend payments, capital expenditures and debt repayment, partially offset by operating cash flow generation, cash from employee stock option exercises and reclassification of long-term to short-term investments; •an increase in income taxes payable related to the timing of accruals in certain major markets in the ordinary course of business and the reclassification of the first federal installment of transition tax previously recorded in noncurrent liabilities; and•the net impact of foreign currency exchange.(d) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock).on september 7, 2018, we completed a public offering of $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 7d.financial instruments: long-term debt).on october 6, 2016, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement under which icu medical agreed to acquire all of our global infusion systems net assets, his. the revised transaction closed on february 3, 2017. at closing, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of icu medical common stock (as originally agreed). in august 2018, we sold 700,000 shares of icu medical common stock. we continue to hold 2.5 million shares of icu medical common stock. the lock-up period under the shareholder agreement that we entered into with icu medical in connection with these shares expired on august 3, 2018 and the shares are registrable upon our request subject to the terms thereof. given that the shares were received in connection with our divestiture of the his business, and that our business model is generally not to invest in equities, we are evaluating our options to monetize the shares subject to market conditions and other relevant factors.for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.domestic and international selected financial assetsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our selected financial assets are held internationally. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). given the recent changes in tax law under the tcja, which includes transitioning u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimated repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries for which we plan to elect payment over eight years through 2026. these changes will also allow us to more easily access our selected financial assets globally. as a result of the enactment of the tcja, in 2018 we repatriated the majority of our cash we held internationally as of year-end 2017.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debtdate of last rating change rating rating moody’s(a) p-1 a1 october 2009s&p(b) a-1+ aa october 2009(a) in september 2016, moody’s updated their credit outlook from negative outlook to stable.(b) in april 2016, s&p updated their credit outlook from negative watch to stable.106debt capacity––lines of creditwe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we typically maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. as of september 30, 2018, we had access to $7.6 billion of lines of credit, of which $571 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $7.6 billion were unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request, primarily under our revolving credit facility expiring in 2022, and may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.global economic conditions––generalthe global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. for additional information see “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our operating environment––the global economic environment” section in this md&a.global economic conditions––venezuela operationsour venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. we used the venezuelan bolivar soberano rate of 60.27 as our best estimate to revalue our venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets. the current dicom rate is about 64.89. future actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. we have in venezuela a few net monetary assets and $46 million of non-monetary assets, and $11 million of deferred foreign exchange losses reported in the balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive loss––foreign currency translation adjustments at august 26, 2018, our international quarter-end.global economic conditions––argentina operationsour argentina operations function in a hyperinflationary economy. the impact to pfizer is not considered material. off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses and other transactions, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to events and activities prior to or following a transaction. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we may be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnification obligations generally are subject to various restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of september 30, 2018, the estimated fair value of our indemnity obligations was not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreementsour december 2015 $11 billion share repurchase program was exhausted in the third quarter of 2018. in december 2017, the board of directors authorized an additional $10 billion share repurchase program, and share repurchases commenced thereunder in the third quarter of 2018 (the 2017 program).on march 12, 2018, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank to repurchase $4.0 billion of our common stock. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. contingencies and certain commitments and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q.107the following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreements:  three months ended nine months ended(shares in millions, dollars in billions) september 30, 2018(a) october 1, 2017 september 30, 2018(a) october 1, 2017(b)shares of common stock purchased 47 — 192 150cost of purchase $1.1 $— $7.2 $5.0(a) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank entered into on march 12, 2018, as well as other share repurchases. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. contingencies and certain commitments and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q and the quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended april 1, 2018.(b) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on february 2, 2017. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 12. equity in our 2017 financial report.at september 30, 2018, our remaining share-purchase authorization under the 2017 program was approximately $9.2 billion.dividends on common stockin september 2018, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.34 per share, payable on december 3, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on november 9, 2018.108new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of september 30, 2018standard/description effective date effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin february 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for leases. the new asu provides guidance for both lessee and lessor accounting models. among other things, the new guidance requires that a right of use asset and a lease liability be recognized for leases with a duration of greater than one year. since its issuance, the fasb has issued several asus, including amending the guidance to offer an additional transition method. january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this new guidance. we anticipate recognition of approximately $2 billion of additional assets and corresponding liabilities on our balance sheet. we have also assessed the potential impact of embedded leases on our consolidated financial statements, given our manufacturing outsourcing, service arrangements and other agreements. in connection with this guidance we are currently designing new global processes and technological solutions to provide the appropriate financial accounting and disclosure data. we continue to monitor changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the fasb, which may impact our conclusions.in march 2017, the fasb issued new guidance that shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium. the new guidance requires the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. january 1, 2019. early application is permitted, including in interim periods, so long as any adjustments are reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period in which the guidance is applied. we do not have any investments with features subject to this standard and do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in july 2017, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, and accounting for certain financial instruments with down round features (a feature in a financial instrument that reduces the strike price of an issued financial instrument if the issuer sells shares of its stock for an amount less than the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument or issues an equity-linked financial instrument with a strike price below the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument). january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we do not have any financial instruments with features subject to this standard and do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in june 2018, the fasb issued new guidance to simplify the accounting for share-based payments to nonemployees by aligning it with the accounting for share-based payments to employees, with certain exceptions. under the guidance, the measurement of equity-classified nonemployee awards will be fixed at the grant date. january 1, 2019. early adoption is permitted, including in interim periods. we do not have any share-based awards issued to nonemployees and do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.109standard/description effective date effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin june 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments. the new guidance replaces the probable initial recognition threshold for incurred loss estimates in current gaap with a methodology that reflects expected credit loss estimates. january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted as of fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. this standard includes our financial instruments, such as accounts receivable, and investments that are generally of high credit quality.previously, when credit losses were measured under gaap, an entity generally only considered past events and current conditions in measuring the incurred loss.the new guidance requires us to identify, analyze, document and support new methodologies for quantifying expected credit loss estimates for our financial instruments, using information such as historical experience and current economic environmental conditions, plus the use of reasonable supportable forecast information.in january 2017, the fasb issued new guidance for goodwill impairment testing. the new guidance eliminates the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. under the new guidance the goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, although it cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted. we do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in august 2018, the fasb issued new guidance related to customers’ accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is considered a service contract. the new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs in such arrangements with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. the new guidance can be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. in november 2018, the fasb issued new guidance clarifying the interaction between the accounting guidance for collaboration agreements and revenue from contracts with customers. january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.110forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, the benefits expected from our plans to organize our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of the company's 2019 fiscal year, our acquisitions and other business development activities, our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, the disposition of the his net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our hospira manufacturing facilities set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our business––product manufacturing” section of this md&a, our plans to organize our company into three businesses effective at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year and our expectations regarding growth set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our strategy––organizing for growth” section of this md&a, the anticipated timeframe for any decision regarding strategic alternatives for pfizer consumer healthcare set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our business” and “––our strategy––our business development initiatives” sections of this md&a, our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––the global economic environment” and the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” sections of this md&a, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2018” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives set forth in the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, the benefits expected from our business development transactions and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to our pension and postretirement plans during 2018 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products; uncertainties regarding our ability to address the comments received by us from regulatory authorities such as the fda and the ema with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of those authorities; and recommendations by technical or advisory committees, such as acip, that may impact the use of our vaccines; •the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;111•risks associated with preliminary, early stage or interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which preliminary, early stage or interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the preliminary, early stage or interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication;•the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to identify and execute on potential business development opportunities, the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any such transactions, and the potential need to obtain additional equity or debt financing to pursue these opportunities which could result in increased leverage and impact our credit ratings;•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;•the implementation by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•risks related to our ability to develop and launch biosimilars, including risks associated with “at risk” launches, defined as the marketing of a product by pfizer before the final resolution of litigation (including any appeals) brought by a third party alleging that such marketing would infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party, and access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive appropriate formulary access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to the innovator product;•the ability to meet competition from generic, branded and biosimilar products after the loss or expiration of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;•difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including delays caused by natural events, such as hurricanes; supply shortages at our facilities; and legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, debarment, injunctions or voluntary recall of a product;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products;•the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented;• the impact of any u.s. healthcare reform or legislation, including any replacement, repeal, modification or invalidation of some or all of the provisions of the u.s. patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action and/or policy efforts affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines, manufacturer prices and/or price increases that could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;112•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses and settlement costs;•the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where one or more third parties seeks damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of its patents by our commercial or other activities, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, as well as tax issues;•the risk that our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis, or any patent-term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all;•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of the recently passed tcja;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesale distributors, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;•the end result of any negotiations between the u.k. government and the eu regarding the terms of the u.k.’s exit from the eu, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products;•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•further clarifications and/or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, in the u.s. and other countries;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate; and the risks related to volatility of our income due to changes in the market value of equity investments;•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; •the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items;•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, including our plans to organize our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of the company’s 2019 fiscal year, and cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, each of which requires upfront costs but may fail to yield anticipated benefits and may result in unexpected costs or organizational disruption;•the impact of product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items;•the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; •risks related to internal control over financial reporting; 113•risks and uncertainties related to our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions, including the possibility that expected accretion related to the acquisitions of hospira, anacor and medivation will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transactions making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; risks related to our ability to grow revenues for xtandi; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities; and•risks and uncertainties related to our evaluation of strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alternatives we may pursue for our consumer healthcare business; the potential for disruption to our business and diversion of management’s attention from other aspects of our business; the possibility that such strategic alternatives will not be completed on terms that are advantageous to pfizer; the possibility that we may be unable to realize a higher value for pfizer consumer healthcare through strategic alternatives; and unknown liabilities.we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects.our 2017 form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. reference is also made to part ii, item 1a, “risk factors,” of this quarterly report on form 10-q. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented.this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.financial risk managementinterest rate riskwith respect to our investments, we strive to maintain a predominantly floating–rate basis position, but our strategy may change based on prevailing market conditions. we currently borrow primarily on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. historically, we strove to borrow primarily on a floating-rate basis; but in recent years we borrowed on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. from time to time, depending on market conditions, we will change the profile of our outstanding debt by entering into derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps.legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. contingencies and certain commitments: legal proceedings in part i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.114