item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&a)introductionour md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:ñoverview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookbeginning on page 38 this section provides information about the following: our business; our performance during the first quarter of 2015 and 2014; our operating environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2015. ñanalysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomebeginning on page 47 this section includes a revenues overview section as well as the following sub-sections:  ○  revenues - major biopharmaceutical productsbeginning on page 49 this sub-section provides revenue information for several of our major biopharmaceutical products.  ○  product developments - biopharmaceuticalbeginning on page 53 this sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.  ○  costs and expensesbeginning on page 56 this sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.  ○  provision for taxes on incomebeginning on page 58 this sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.  ○  adjusted incomebeginning on page 59 this sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. ñanalysis of operating segment informationbeginning on page 63 this section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments for the first quarter of 2015 and selected balance sheet information as of december 31, 2014 for each of our operating segments. ñanalysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetbeginning on page 68 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts, including the accumulated other comprehensive loss. ñanalysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flowsbeginning on page 69 this section provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first three months of 2015 and 2014. ñanalysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourcesbeginning on page 70 this section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of march 29, 2015 and december 31, 2014, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of march 29, 2015 and december 31, 2014. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer's future activities. ñnew accounting standardsbeginning on page 74 this section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. ñforward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsbeginning on page 76 this section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a, relating to, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. such forward-looking statements are based on management’s plans and assumptions, which are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. certain amounts in our md&a may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.references to our 2014 financial report refer to our 2014 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our 2014 annual report on form 10-k.36the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 %changerevenues $10,864 $11,353 (4)       cost of sales 1,838 2,045 (10)% of revenues 16.9% 18.0%         selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,104 3,040 2% of revenues 28.6% 26.8%         research and development expenses 1,885 1,623 16% of revenues 17.4% 14.3%         amortization of intangible assets 940 1,117 (16)% of revenues 8.6% 9.8%         restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 60 58 3% of revenues 0.6% 0.5%         other (income)/deductions––net (46) 623 *income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,082 2,847 8% of revenues 28.4% 25.1%         provision for taxes on income 706 582 21effective tax rate 22.9% 20.4%         income from continuing operations 2,376 2,265 5% of revenues 21.9% 20.0%         discontinued operations––net of tax 5 73 (93)       net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 2,381 2,338 2% of revenues 21.9% 20.6%         less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 6 9 (38)net income attributable to pfizer inc. $2,376 $2,329 2% of revenues 21.9% 20.5%         earnings per common share––basic:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.38 $0.35 9discontinued operations––net of tax — 0.01 (100)net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.38 $0.36 6       earnings per common share––diluted:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.38 $0.35 9discontinued operations––net of tax — 0.01 (100)net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.38 $0.36 6       cash dividends paid per common share $0.28 $0.26 8* calculation not meaningful.37overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies (alliance revenues).the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the u.s. is as of and for the three months ended february 22, 2015 and february 23, 2014.on february 5, 2015, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we agreed to acquire hospira, inc. (hospira), the world’s leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies and a global leader in biosimilars, for $90 per share in cash, for a total enterprise value of approximately $17 billion. we expect to finance the transaction through a combination of existing cash and new debt, with approximately two-thirds of the value financed from cash and one-third from debt. the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals in several jurisdictions and the approval of hospira's shareholders, and is expected to close in the second half of 2015.our first quarter 2015 performancerevenues––first quarter 2015 revenues in the first quarter of 2015 were $10.9 billion, a decrease of 4% compared to the same period in 2014, which reflects an operational increase of $250 million, or 2%, more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $739 million, or 7%. the operational increase was primarily the result of:•the performance of certain key products in developed markets, including prevnar 13 and eliquis, as well as lyrica, nexium 24hr, xeljanz and viagra primarily in the u.s., and the launch of ibrance (palbociclib) in the u.s. in february 2015 (collectively, up approximately $800 million); and•a 12% operational increase in revenues in emerging markets, reflecting continued strong operational growth from prevnar 13, lipitor, viagra and norvasc (collectively, up approximately $160 million),partially offset primarily by:•the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-source generic competition for celebrex in the u.s. in december 2014 (down approximately $380 million);•the loss of exclusivity for zyvox iv, rapamune, aricept in canada, lyrica (gep), viagra (gep), and inspra (collectively, down $165 million); •the loss of exclusivity for certain other products and the performance of certain other products such as lipitor in developed markets and enbrel internationally (collectively, down approximately $130 million); and•the termination of the spiriva co-promotion collaboration in certain countries (down approximately $70 million).income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2015 was $2.4 billion, compared to $2.3 billion in the first quarter of 2014, primarily reflecting, among other items, in addition to the operational and foreign exchange impacts for revenues described above:•lower legal charges (down $694 million) (see the “costs and expenses––other (income)/deductions––net” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net);•lower cost of sales (down $207 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a);•lower amortization of intangible assets (down $177 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets ” section of this md&a); and•lower asset impairments (down $115 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––other (income)/deductions––net” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net),38partially offset by:•higher research and development expenses (up $262 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––research and development (r&d) expenses” section of this md&a); •a higher effective tax rate (up 2.5 percentage points to 22.9%) (see also the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters); •higher charges for business and legal entity alignment activities (up $72 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––other (income)/deductions––net” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net); and•higher selling, informational and administrative expenses (up $64 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––selling, information and administrative expenses (si&a) expenses” section of this md&a).our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesthe majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2014 annual report on form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition among branded products. we also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. for additional information about these factors and challenges, see “the global economic environment” section of this md&a.intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. we have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products and alliance products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2014 financial report for information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity impacting product revenues and (ii) recent and expected losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years. for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, “business”, of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “revenues––major biopharmaceutical products” and “revenues––selected product descriptions” sections of this md&a. for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (together, the u.s. healthcare legislation, and also known as the affordable care act, or aca), was enacted in the u.s. for additional information, see the “government regulation and price constraints” section in part i, item 1, "business", of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k. we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:•$233 million in the first quarter of 2015 and $176 million in the first quarter of 2014 recorded as a reduction to revenues, related to the higher, extended and expanded rebate provisions and the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and 39•$32 million of expense in the first quarter of 2015 and $29 million of income in the first quarter of 2014 recorded in selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. the income in the first quarter of 2014 reflected a favorable true-up associated with the final 2013 invoice received from the federal government, which reflected a lower share than that of the initial 2013 invoice.regulatory environment/pricing and access––government and other payer group pressuresgovernments, managed care organizations and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. in the u.s., government activities include:•sustainable growth rate replacement—until recently the medicare physician payment formula known as the sustainable growth rate (sgr) was annually overridden by congressional action because it would have led to dramatic decreases in physician payment. on april 16, 2015, a permanent replacement for the sgr, the medicare access and children's health insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, was signed into law. we do not believe the new payment methodology will pose a risk to pfizer’s revenues or that the offsets identified to fund the replacement will have any direct impact on our business.•deficit reduction—any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.the aca, which expanded the role of the u.s. government as a healthcare payer, is accelerating changes in the u.s. healthcare marketplace, and the potential for additional pricing and access pressures continues to be significant. many of these developments may impact drug utilization, in particular branded drug utilization. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca to be imposed in 2018, are already scaling back healthcare benefits. some health plans and pharmacy benefit managers are seeking greater pricing predictability from pharmaceutical manufacturers in contractual negotiations. other health plans and pharmacy benefit managers are increasing their focus on spending on specialty medicines by implementing co-insurance in place of a flat co-payment. because co-insurance passes on a percentage of a drug’s cost to the patient, this shift has the potential to significantly increase patient out-of-pocket costs.overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. •we believe that patients, who are experiencing increases in co-pays and restrictions on access to medicines as payers seek to control costs, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. we are exposed to negative pricing pressure in various markets around the world. the u.s. has highly competitive insurance markets, and europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets have government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global pressures. furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to restricted access to and lower prices for new medicines.40•we continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. for further information about our accounts receivable, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.•significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a. despite the challenging financial markets, pfizer maintains a strong financial position. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both standard & poor’s (s&p) and moody’s investors service. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors,” of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k.our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our products and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize access to patients and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company's purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. commercial operationswe manage our commercial operations through two distinct businesses: an innovative products business and an established products business. the innovative products business is composed of two operating segments, each of which is led by a single manager––the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip) and the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment (voc).the established products business consists of the global established pharmaceutical segment (gep), which is led by a single manager. each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain in-process research and development (ipr&d) projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof of concept. each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets. some additional information about each product grouping follows:•global innovative pharmaceutical segment––gip is focused on developing, registering and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines that significantly improve patients’ lives. these therapeutic areas include inflammation, cardiovascular/metabolic, neuroscience and pain, rare diseases and women’s/men’s health and include leading brands, such as xeljanz, 41eliquis and lyrica (u.s. and japan). gip has a pipeline of medicines in inflammation, cardiovascular/metabolic disease, neuroscience and pain, and rare diseases. •global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment––voc focuses on the development and commercialization of vaccines and products for oncology and consumer healthcare. consumer healthcare manufactures and markets several well known, over-the-counter (otc) products. each of the three businesses in voc operates as a separate, global business with distinct specialization in terms of the science and market approach necessary to deliver value to consumers and patients. •global established pharmaceutical segment––gep includes the brands that have lost market exclusivity and, generally, the mature, patent-protected products that are expected to lose exclusivity through 2015 in most major markets and, to a much smaller extent, generic pharmaceuticals. additionally, gep includes our sterile injectable products and biosimilar development portfolio.we expect that the gip and voc biopharmaceutical portfolios of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by these groups are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers.gep is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. gep leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. we may also engage in targeted business development to further enable our commercial strategies.for additional information about our operating structure, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.for additional information about the first quarter of 2015 performance and selected balance sheet information as of december 31, 2014 for each of our operating segments, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.research operationswe continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules––immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars. while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek to expand our pipeline by entering into agreements with other companies to develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. collaboration, alliance and license agreements and acquisitions allow us to capitalize on these compounds to expand our pipeline of potential future products. in addition, collaborations and alliances allow us to share risk and to access external scientific and technological expertise.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments––biopharmaceutical” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline and maximize the value of our in-line products, see the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. for additional 42information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through dividends and share repurchases. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a.on february 9, 2015, we entered into and executed an accelerated share repurchase agreement with goldman, sachs & co. to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. this agreement was entered into pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase authorization. for additional information, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources––share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreement” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies.our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, dispositions and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we are especially interested in opportunities in our high-priority therapeutic areas––immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases––and in emerging markets and established products, including biosimilars. we assess our businesses and assets as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities for our businesses. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisition, collaborative arrangements and equity-method investment.the more significant recent transactions and events are described below. •agreement to acquire hospira, inc. (hospira)––on february 5, 2015, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we agreed to acquire hospira, the world’s leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies and a global leader in biosimilars, for $90 per share in cash, for a total enterprise value of approximately $17 billion. we expect to finance the transaction through a combination of existing cash and new debt, with approximately two-thirds of the value financed from cash and one-third from debt. the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals in several jurisdictions and the approval of hospira's shareholders, and is expected to close in the second half of 2015.•collaboration with opko health, inc. (opko)––on december 13, 2014, we entered into a collaborative agreement with opko to develop and commercialize opko’s long-acting human growth hormone (hgh-ctp) for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency (ghd) in adults and children, as well as for the treatment of growth failure in children born small for gestational age (sga) who fail to show catch-up growth by two years of age. hgh-ctp has the potential to reduce the required dosing frequency of human growth hormone to a single weekly injection from the current standard of one injection per day. the transaction closed on january 28, 2015, upon termination of the waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino act. in february 2015, we made an upfront payment of $295 million to opko, which was recorded in research and development expenses, and opko is eligible to receive up to an additional $275 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones. we have received the exclusive license to commercialize hgh-ctp worldwide. subject to regulatory approval, opko is eligible to receive royalty payments associated with the commercialization of hgh-ctp for adult ghd. upon the launch of hgh-ctp for pediatric ghd, the royalties will transition to tiered gross profit sharing for both hgh-ctp and our product, genotropin. opko will lead the clinical activities and will be responsible for funding the development programs for the key indications, which includes adult and pediatric ghd and pediatric sga. we will be responsible for all development costs for additional indications, as well as all postmarketing studies and the commercialization activities for all indications, and lead the manufacturing activities covered by the global development plan. 43•acquisition of marketed vaccines business of baxter international inc. (baxter)––on december 1, 2014 (which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2015 for our international operations), we completed the acquisition of baxter's portfolio of marketed vaccines for a final purchase price of $648 million. the portfolio that was acquired consists of neisvac-c and fsme-immun/ticovac. neisvac-c is a vaccine that helps protect against meningitis caused by group c meningococcal meningitis and fsme-immun/ticovac is a vaccine that helps protect against tick-borne encephalitis.•collaboration with merck kgaa––on november 17, 2014, we entered into a collaborative agreement with merck kgaa, to jointly develop and commercialize avelumab, an investigational anti-pd-l1 antibody currently in development as a potential treatment for multiple types of cancer. we and merck kgaa are exploring the therapeutic potential of this novel anti-pd-l1 antibody as a single agent as well as in various combinations with our and merck kgaa’s broad portfolio of approved and investigational oncology therapies. both companies are collaborating on up to 20 high priority immuno-oncology clinical development programs expected to commence in 2015. these clinical development programs include up to six trials (phase 2 or 3) that could be pivotal for potential product registrations. we and merck kgaa are also combining resources and expertise to advance pfizer’s anti-pd-1 antibody into phase 1 trials. under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of $850 million to merck kgaa and merck kgaa is eligible to receive regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to approximately $2.0 billion. both companies will jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-pd-l1 or anti-pd-1 products from this collaboration. also, as part of the agreement, we gave merck kgaa certain co-promotion rights for xalkori in the u.s. and several other key markets. in 2014, we recorded $1.2 billion of research and development expenses associated with this collaborative arrangement, composed of the $850 million upfront cash payment as well as an additional amount of $309 million, reflecting the estimated fair value of the co-promotion rights given to merck kgaa. •acquisition of innopharma, inc. (innopharma)––on september 24, 2014, we completed our acquisition of innopharma, a privately-held pharmaceutical development company, for an upfront cash payment of $225 million and contingent milestone payments of up to $135 million.•license from cellectis sa (cellectis)––on june 18, 2014, we entered into a global arrangement with cellectis to develop chimeric antigen receptor t-cell immunotherapies in the field of oncology directed at select cellular surface antigen targets. in august 2014, we made an upfront payment of $80 million to cellectis, which was recorded in research and development expenses. we will also fund r&d costs associated with 15 pfizer-selected targets and, for the benefit of cellectis, a portion of the r&d costs associated with four cellectis-selected targets within the arrangement. cellectis is eligible to receive development, regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to $185 million per product that results from the pfizer-selected targets. cellectis is also eligible to receive tiered royalties on net sales of any products that are commercialized by pfizer.•investment in viiv healthcare limited (viiv)––on january 21, 2014, the european commission approved tivicay (dolutegravir), a product for the treatment of hiv-1 infection, developed by viiv, an equity-method investee. this approval, in accordance with the agreement between glaxosmithkline plc and pfizer, triggered a reduction in our equity interest in viiv from 12.6% to 11.7% and an increase in glaxosmithkline plc’s equity interest in viiv from 77.4% to 78.3%, effective april 1, 2014. as a result, in the first quarter of 2014, we recognized a loss of approximately $36 million in other (income)/deductions––net. we continue to account for our investment in viiv under the equity method due to the significant influence that we continue to have through our board representation and minority veto rights.•collaboration with eli lilly & company (lilly)––in october 2013, we entered into a collaboration agreement with lilly to jointly develop and globally commercialize pfizer's tanezumab, which provides that pfizer and lilly will equally share product-development expenses as well as potential revenues and certain product-related costs. on march 23, 2015, pfizer and lilly announced that the companies are preparing to resume the phase 3 clinical program for tanezumab. as a result, we received a $200 million upfront payment from lilly in accordance with the collaboration agreement between pfizer and lilly, which was recorded as deferred revenue in our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of march 29, 2015 and is being recognized into other (income)/deductions––net over a multi-year period beginning in the second quarter of 2015. this announcement followed a decision by the fda to lift the partial clinical hold on the tanezumab development program after a review of nonclinical data characterizing the sympathetic nervous system response to tanezumab. under the agreement with lilly, we are eligible to receive certain payments from lilly upon the achievement of specified regulatory and commercial milestones, including the aforementioned upfront payment of $200 million, which was contingent upon the parties continuing in the collaboration after receipt of the fda’s response to the submission of the nonclinical data.44•license of nexium otc rights––in august 2012, we entered into an agreement with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca) for the exclusive, global, over-the-counter (otc) rights for nexium, a leading prescription drug approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. in connection with this consumer healthcare licensing agreement, we made an upfront payment of $250 million to astrazeneca, which was recorded in research and development expenses in our consolidated statement of income for the year ended december 31, 2012. on may 27, 2014, we launched nexium 24hr in the u.s., and on july 11, 2014, we paid astrazeneca a related $200 million product launch milestone payment; and on august 1, 2014, we launched nexium control in europe, and on september 15, 2014, we paid astrazeneca a related $50 million product launch milestone payment. these post-approval milestone payments were recorded in identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization in the consolidated balance sheet and will be amortized over the estimated useful life of the nexium brand. astrazeneca is eligible to receive additional milestone payments of up to $300 million, based on the level of worldwide sales as well as royalty payments, based on worldwide sales.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 27, 2015, the filing date of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k, see the “our business development initiatives” section of our 2014 financial report.our financial guidance for 2015our 2015 financial guidance issued on january 27, 2015 was updated on april 28, 2015 solely to reflect changes in foreign exchange rates in relation to the u.s. dollar from mid-january 2015 to mid-april 2015, primarily the weakening of the euro.the following table provides our financial guidance for full year 2015(a), (b):reported revenues$44.0 to $46.0 billion(previously $44.5 to $46.5 billion)adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of reported revenues18.5% to 19.5%adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$12.8 to $13.8 billionadjusted research and development expenses$6.9 to $7.4 billionadjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately ($500 million) of incomeeffective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 25.0%reported diluted earnings per share (eps)$1.32 to $1.47(previously $1.37 to $1.52)adjusted diluted eps$1.95 to $2.05(previously $2.00 to $2.10)the following table provides a reconciliation of 2015 adjusted income and adjusted diluted eps guidance to the 2015 reported net income attributable to pfizer inc. and reported diluted eps attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders guidance:  full-year 2015 guidance(a), (b)(billions of dollars, except per share amounts) net income diluted epsadjusted income/diluted eps guidance(b) $12.2 - $12.8 $1.95 - $2.05purchase accounting impacts of transactions completed as of march 29, 2015 (2.5) (0.41)restructuring and implementation costs (0.8) - (1.1) (0.13) - (0.18)business and legal entity alignment costs (0.3) (0.04)reported net income attributable to pfizer inc./diluted eps guidance $8.3 - $9.2 $1.32 - $1.47(a) the 2015 financial guidance reflects the following:•does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of march 29, 2015, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. our 2015 financial guidance does not reflect any impact from our proposed acquisition of hospira, which is expected to close during the second half of 2015.•excludes the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of march 29, 2015.•exchange rates assumed are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect during the first quarter of 2015 and the mid-april 2015 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. excludes the impact of a potential devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar.•guidance for reported revenues reflects the anticipated negative impact of $3.5 billion due to recent and expected generic competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection, partially offset by anticipated revenue growth from certain other products. •guidance for reported revenues also reflects the anticipated negative impact of $3.3 billion as a result of unfavorable changes in essentially all foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2014, which results in an anticipated $0.22 negative impact to 2015 reported and adjusted diluted eps.45•guidance for the effective tax rate on adjusted income does not assume the renewal of the u.s. research and development (r&d) tax credit. the renewal of the u.s. r&d tax credit is not anticipated to have a material impact on the effective tax rate on adjusted income.•guidance for reported and adjusted diluted eps assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.25 billion shares, inclusive of share repurchases totaling $6 billion in 2015 composed of $1 billion of shares repurchased through january 30, 2015 and a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed on february 9, 2015, partially offset by actual and projected dilution related to employee compensation programs.(b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the “adjusted income” section of this md&a.for additional information about our actual and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our cost-reduction initiatives and our new global commercial structure, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our 2015 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties—as described in the “our operating environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; the “our operating environment” and “our strategy” sections of our 2014 financial report; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors,” of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k.46analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomerevenues and product developmentsrevenues––overviewthe following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geographic area:  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) mar 29, 2015 mar 30, 2014 mar 29, 2015 mar 30, 2014 mar 29, 2015 mar 30, 2014 % change in revenuesthree months ended                  operating segments(a):                  gip $3,075 $3,076 $1,490 $1,327 $1,585 $1,749 — 12 (9)voc 2,664 2,174 1,482 1,000 1,182 1,173 23 48 1gep 5,014 5,990 1,411 1,904 3,603 4,086 (16) (26) (12)  10,753 11,240 4,383 4,231 6,370 7,008 (4) 4 (9)other(b) 111 113 50 43 61 70 (2) 16 (13)total revenues $10,864 $11,353 $4,433 $4,275 $6,430 $7,078 (4) 4 (9)(a) gip = the global innovative pharmaceutical segment; voc = the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment; and gep = the global established pharmaceutical segment.(b) includes revenues generated from pfizer centresource, our contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales organization, and also includes the revenues related to our transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis.see the “our first quarter 2015 performance” section of this md&a, for a discussion of performance of worldwide revenues. geographically, •in the u.s., revenues increased $159 million, or 4%, in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflecting, among other things:◦the performance of certain key products, including prevnar 13, lyrica, eliquis, nexium 24hr, xeljanz, viagra and the launch of ibrance (palbociclib) in the u.s. in february 2015 (collectively, up approximately $700 million),partially offset by: ◦losses of exclusivity and immediate multi-source generic competition for celebrex in the u.s. in december 2014 (down approximately $380 million); and◦the loss of exclusivity for zyvox iv and rapamune, as well as the termination of our spiriva co-promotion collaboration (collectively, down approximately $140 million).•in our international markets, revenues decreased $648 million, or 9%, in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. foreign exchange unfavorably impacted international revenues by approximately $739 million, or 10%. operationally, revenues increased $91 million, or 1%, in the first quarter of 2015, reflecting, among other things:◦the operational growth of prevenar 13, lipitor, viagra and norvasc in emerging markets (up approximately $160 million); and◦higher revenues for eliquis and xalkori in developed markets (collectively, up approximately $70 million),partially offset by: ◦lower revenues for celebrex, viagra, lyrica and inspra as a result of the loss of exclusivity, as well as enbrel, lipitor and norvasc in developed markets (collectively, down approximately $210 million).during the first quarter of 2015, international revenues represented 59% of total revenues, compared to 62% in the first quarter of 2014. excluding foreign exchange, international revenues in the first quarter of 2015 represented 62% of total revenues, compared to 61% in the first quarter of 2014.for additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.47revenue deductionsour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent rebates, chargebacks and sales allowances to government agencies, wholesalers/distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our pharmaceutical products. those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period, and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends.the following table provides information about deductions from revenues:      three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014medicare rebates(a) $221 $240medicaid and related state program rebates(a) 280 172performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 465 513chargebacks(c) 1,044 833sales allowances(d) 903 941sales returns and cash discounts 261 241total(e) $3,174 $2,940(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with managed care customers within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. outside the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to u.s. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the u.s., discounts and distribution fees.(e) for the three months ended march 29, 2015, associated with the following segments: gip ($0.9 billion); voc ($0.3 billion); and gep ($1.9 billion). for the three months ended march 30, 2014, associated with the following segments: gip ($0.7 billion); voc ($0.2 billion); and gep ($2.0 billion).the total rebates and chargebacks for the first quarter of 2015 increased 8% compared to the first quarter of  2014, primarily as a result of:•an increase in chargebacks primarily due to products that have lost exclusivity in the u.s. and then as a result of increasing competitive pressures, as well as increases for certain u.s. branded products; and•an increase in medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of updated estimates of sales related to these programs,partially offset by:•a decrease in performance-based contract rebates primarily in europe and the u.s.our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $2.9 billion as of march 29, 2015, of which approximately $1.8 billion is included in other current liabilities, $229 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $881 million is included against accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $3.4 billion as of december 31, 2014, of which approximately $2.0 billion is included in other current liabilities, $300 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.1 billion is included against accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. total accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts as of march 29, 2015 decreased by $500 million compared to december 31, 2014, primarily due to the timing of certain medicare payments in the u.s.48revenues—major biopharmaceutical productsthe following table provides revenue information for several of our major biopharmaceutical products:    three months ended(millions of dollars)   march 29, 2015 % change(b)product primary indications business(a)  prevnar family(c) vaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease v $1,306 41lyrica(d) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury gep/gip 1,187 3enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada) rheumatoid, juvenile rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis gip 759 (17)lipitor reduction of ldl cholesterol gep 441 (4)viagra(e) erectile dysfunction gep/gip 396 6zyvox bacterial infections gep 271 (15)norvasc hypertension gep 252 (9)sutent advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mrcc), refractory gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist) and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor o 242 (10)premarin family symptoms of menopause gep 232 (7)celebrex arthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain gep 205 (67)vfend fungal infections gep 182 3benefix hemophilia gip 173 (14)pristiq depression gep 161 (6)chantix/champix an aid to smoking cessation treatment gip 158 7genotropin replacement of human growth hormone gip 138 (17)refacto af/xyntha hemophilia gip 120 (17)xalkori anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive non-small cell lung cancer o 111 26xalatan/xalacom glaucoma and ocular hypertension gep 102 (14)medrol inflammation gep 101 (5)sulperazon antibiotic gep 98 12xeljanz rheumatoid arthritis gip 96 85inlyta advanced renal cell carcinoma (rcc) o 95 8zoloft depression and certain anxiety disorders gep 86 (15)zithromax/zmax bacterial infections gep 86 (7)relpax treats the symptoms of migraine headache gep 80 (8)epipen epinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions gep 76 22fragmin anticoagulant gep 74 (9)tygacil antibiotic gep 74 —effexor depression and certain anxiety disorders gep 73 (11)toviaz overactive bladder gip 63 1revatio pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah) gep 63 (18)unasyn injectable antibacterial gep 55 19neurontin seizures gep 55 12xanax/xanax xr anxiety disorders gep 54 (8)rapamune prevention of organ rejection in kidney transplantation gip 53 (39)cardura hypertension/benign prostatic hyperplasia gep 52 (22)ibrance breast cancer o 38 *alliance revenues(f) various gep/gip 222 4all other biopharmaceutical(g) various gip/gep/v/o 1,913 (10)all other gip(g)   gip 179 (9)all other gep(g)   gep 1,671 (12)all other v/o(g)   v/o 63 53(a) indicates the business to which the revenues relate. gip = the global innovative pharmaceutical segment; v = the global vaccines business; o = the global oncology business; and gep = the global established pharmaceutical segment.(b) as compared to the three months ended march 30, 2014.(c) in the first quarter of 2015, all revenues were composed of prevnar 13/prevenar 13. in the first quarter of 2014, revenues were composed of the prevnar family of products, which included prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and, to a much lesser extent, prevenar (7-valent).(d) lyrica revenues from all of europe are included in gep. all other lyrica revenues are included in gip.(e) viagra revenues from the u.s. and canada are included in gip. all other viagra revenues are included in gep.(f) includes eliquis (gip), rebif (gip), spiriva (gep) and aricept (gep).(g) all other gip, all other gep and all other v/o are subsets of all other biopharmaceutical revenues.* calculation not meaningful.49revenues––selected product descriptions•prevnar/prevenar 13 (v), is our pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of various syndromes of pneumococcal disease. overall, worldwide operational revenues for prevnar increased 48% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 7% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.in the u.s., revenues for prevnar increased 80% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, mainly due to continued strong uptake among adults following the positive recommendation from the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention's (cdc) advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) for use in adults aged 65 and older in the third quarter of 2014 as well as the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication. internationally, operational revenues for prevenar increased 15% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of prevenar's inclusion in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 14% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. in 2014, the acip voted to recommend prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. these acip recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the cdc and u.s. department of health and human services, and were published in the morbidity and mortality weekly report (mmwr) in september 2014 by the cdc. as with other vaccines, the cdc regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the cdc announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018. currently, we are working with a number of u.s. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends.in march 2015, the european commission approved an expanded indication for the use of prevenar 13 for the prevention of pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes in the vaccine in adults aged 18 years and older. the summary of product characteristics has also been updated to include efficacy data from our landmark community-acquired pneumonia immunization trial in adults (capita), which demonstrated statistically significant reductions in first episodes of vaccine-type pneumococcal community-acquired pneumonia (cap), including non-invasive/non-bacteremic cap, and invasive pneumococcal disease (ipd) in adults aged 65 and older.•lyrica (gip/gep) is indicated in the u.s. for three neuropathic pain conditions, fibromyalgia and adjunctive therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures. in certain countries outside the u.s., indications include neuropathic pain (peripheral and central), fibromyalgia, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and generalized anxiety disorder. worldwide operational revenues for lyrica increased 10% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 7% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.in the u.s., revenues increased 21% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, driven by price and volume increases, and investment in effective direct-to-consumer advertising combined with strong field force performance, partially offset by higher rebates. internationally, lyrica operational revenues increased 1% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 12% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.worldwide revenues from lyrica in our gip segment increased 18% operationally in the first quarter of 2015, and in our gep segment, revenues from lyrica decreased 4% operationally in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. •enbrel (gip, outside the u.s. and canada), indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis, a type of arthritis affecting the spine, and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis, recorded a decrease in worldwide operational revenues, excluding the u.s. and canada, of 6% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. results were unfavorably impacted by a change in the distribution channel in the u.k. and the timing of prior year purchases in japan, partially offset by operational growth in emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 11% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•lipitor (gep) is indicated for the treatment of elevated ldl-cholesterol levels in the blood. lipitor faces generic competition in all major developed markets. branded lipitor recorded worldwide revenues of $441 million, or an operational increase of 2% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to strong volume 50growth in china resulting from reallocation of field force and promotional efforts, partially offset by brand erosion due to generic competition and increased payer pressure worldwide. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 6% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.in the u.s., revenues decreased 21% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to lower volumes and unfavorable pricing. in our international markets, operational revenues increased 5% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to strong volume growth in china, partially offset by brand erosion due to generic competition and increased payer pressure worldwide. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 6% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•viagra (gep/gip) is indicated for the treatment for erectile dysfunction. viagra worldwide operational revenues increased 10% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to strong operational performance in the u.s. and emerging markets. international (gep) operational revenues decreased 1% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to the impact of generic competition in europe and developed asia, partially offset by strong operational performance in russia and china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 11% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. revenues in the u.s. (gip) increased 16% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014 primarily driven by price increases, favorable changes in wholesaler inventory and higher purchases from the u.s. department of veterans affairs/department of defense, partially offset by lower cash and commercial demand resulting from price sensitivity.•zyvox (gep) is among the world’s best-selling branded agents used to treat serious gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus-aureus. zyvox worldwide operational revenues decreased 10% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, due to zyvox iv generic competition beginning in the u.s. in january 2015, partially offset by solid growth in emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 5% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•norvasc (gep) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. norvasc worldwide operational revenues decreased 3% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, and reflects, among other factors, erosion of generics in japan, partially offset by strong volume growth in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 6% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•sutent (o) is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mrcc); gastrointestinal stromal tumors after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate; and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. sutent worldwide operational revenues were relatively flat in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to continued competitive pressure in the developed markets, offset by strong operational performance in emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 10% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•our premarin family of products (gep) helps women address moderate-to-severe menopausal symptoms. premarin worldwide operational revenues decreased 6% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. revenues in the u.s. were unfavorably impacted by prescription volume declines for premarin family oral brands, partially offset by price increases.•celebrex (gep), indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis worldwide and for the management of acute pain in adults in the u.s., japan and certain other markets, recorded a decrease in worldwide operational revenues of 64% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by the loss of exclusivity and immediate launch of multi-source generic competition in the u.s. (december 2014) and in most other developed markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 3% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.in the u.s., revenues decreased 95% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by the loss of exclusivity and immediate launch of multi-source generic competition in the u.s. in december 2014. internationally, celebrex operational revenues decreased 10% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014 driven by the loss of exclusivity and immediate launch of multi-source generic competition in most other developed markets partially offset by volume growth in japan (strong performance in the low back pain and osteoarthritis indications), south korea (maintaining share despite competition), and emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 8% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. •benefix and refacto af/xyntha (gip) are hemophilia products using state-of-the-art manufacturing that assist patients with their lifelong hemophilia bleeding disorders. benefix worldwide operational revenues decreased 7% in the first 51quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily as a result of the erosion of market share in the u.s. due to the launch of new extended half-life treatment options. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 7% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. refacto af/xyntha recorded an 8% decrease in worldwide operational revenues in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, as a result of price erosion in the u.k. and australia. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 9% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. •pristiq (gep) is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder in the u.s. and in various other countries. pristiq has also been indicated for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms (vms) associated with menopause in thailand, mexico, the philippines and ecuador. pristiq recorded a decrease in worldwide operational revenues of 4% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to a decline in the u.s. market share, partially offset by prescription growth in the developed international markets, primarily including spain, canada and australia. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 2% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•chantix/champix (gip) is an aid to smoking-cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age and older. worldwide operational revenues increased 12% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. revenues in the u.s. increased 12% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to higher demand, price increases and a steadily improving willingness by payers to cover the cost of this medicine in response to the requirements of the affordable care act, partially offset by intensified competition by electronic cigarettes and over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies (nrt). international operational revenues increased 12% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to a shift from a two week to a four week starter pack in canada, a significant tobacco tax increase in korea and the timing of champix purchases by the ministry of health in turkey, partially offset by declines in the u.k. and belgium due to strong competitive pressure from aggressive nrt consumer promotion and the widespread availability of e-cigarettes as well as low champix inventory levels in brazil, which have been resolved. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 12% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•xalkori (o) is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) that is anaplastic lymphoma kinase (alk)-positive, and is now approved in 86 countries, including the u.s., eu (conditional), japan, south korea, canada, australia and switzerland, as well as in many emerging markets, including china, russia, mexico, india and turkey. xalkori recorded worldwide revenues of $111 million in the first quarter of 2015, an operational increase of 34%, compared to the same period in 2014, as a result of (i) an increase in diagnostic rates for the alk gene mutation, which has led to more patients being treated, and (ii) price increases in the u.s. foreign exchange had an 8% unfavorable impact in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•xeljanz (gip) is indicated in the u.s. for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis and is approved for use as a second-line therapy for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (after traditional disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs) in more than 40 markets including the u.s., japan, australia, canada, switzerland and brazil. xeljanz recorded an increase in worldwide operational revenues of 87% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily in the u.s., driven by continued growth through rheumatologist acceptance and consumer awareness. foreign exchange had a 2% unfavorable impact in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•inlyta (o), indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (rcc) after failure of a prior systemic treatment, is now approved in 81 countries, including the u.s., eu, switzerland, japan, canada, australia and south korea (exact indications vary by region). worldwide operational revenues increased 16% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to increased market share. revenues in the u.s. increased 10% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to increased market share and price increases in january 2015. international operational revenues increased 22% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to strong growth in developed markets in europe, where a large proportion of oncologists are prescribing inlyta. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 15% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•ibrance (o), indicated as a first-line treatment for certain forms of advanced breast cancer, was approved and launched in the u.s. in february 2015. ibrance recorded worldwide revenues of $38 million in the first quarter of 2015. •alliance revenues (gep/gip) increased 10% operationally worldwide in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, mainly due to:◦an increase in eliquis alliance revenues,52partially offset by:◦the termination of the co-promotion collaboration for spiriva (gep) in most developed markets, which resulted in an operational decrease in pfizer's share of spiriva revenues of $75 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014.•eliquis (apixaban) (gip) is being jointly developed and commercialized by pfizer and bristol-myers squibb (bms). the two companies share commercialization expenses and profit/losses equally on a global basis. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant (noac) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. eliquis (apixaban) is approved for multiple indications in major markets around the world:◦to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (nvaf);◦for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism (pe), and for the reduction in the risk of recurrent dvt and pe following initial therapy; and◦for the prophylaxis of dvt, which may lead to pe, in patients who have undergone hip or knee replacement surgery. the noac class penetration continues to expand across key markets. eliquis market share also continues to increase among cardiologists, and as of january 2015, it has become the most prescribed oral anticoagulant in new to brand prescriptions among cardiologists in the u.s., japan, and several other major markets. eliquis share uptake with primary care physicians has also been strong.•embeda (gip)—in october 2014, the fda approved an updated label for embeda extended release capsules, for oral use, to include abuse-deterrence study data. embeda is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. embeda became available in the u.s. in february 2015.see the “our operating environment—intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2014 financial report for information regarding the expiration of various contract rights relating to spiriva, aricept, enbrel and rebif.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.product developments—biopharmaceuticalwe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules—immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars. a comprehensive update of pfizer's development pipeline was published on april 28, 2015 and is available at www.pfizer.com/pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for candidates from phase 2 through registration.the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.53recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedibrance (palbociclib)an oral and selective reversible inhibitor of the cdk 4 and 6 kinases for the first-line treatment of patients with estrogen receptor-positive (er+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (her2-) advanced breast cancerfebruary 2015trumenba (mnb rlp2086)a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b in individuals 10 through 25 years of ageoctober 2014eliquis (apixaban)(a)treatment of deep vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism (pe), and for the reduction in the risk of recurrent dvt and peaugust 2014(a) this indication for eliquis (apixaban) was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bristol-myers squibb.pending u.s. new drug applications (nda) and supplemental filingsproductindicationdate filed*alo-02 (oxycodone hci/ naltrexone/hci)a mu-type opioid receptor agonist for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequatefebruary 2015xeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasisfebruary 2015tafamidis meglumine(a)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (ttr-fap)february 2012celebrex (celecoxib)(b)chronic painoctober 2009viviant (bazedoxifene)(c)osteoporosis treatment and preventionaugust 2006*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) in may 2012, the fda's peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. we continue to work with the fda to define a path forward.(b) in june 2010, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda for the celebrex chronic pain supplemental nda. the supplemental nda remains pending while we await the completion of the precision trial, anticipated in 2016, which will inform our next steps. there are no additional granted patents related to this potential approval. the precision trial is designed to assess the relative long-term cardiovascular safety of celebrex compared to prescription doses of ibuprofen and naproxen in the treatment of arthritis pain.(c) ndas for viviant (bazedoxifene) for treatment and prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis remain pending before the fda. in february 2008, the fda advised it expected to convene an advisory committee pending responses to the “approvable letters” received in december 2007 and may 2008 with respect to the ndas. in view of the approval of duavee (conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifene), we continue to assess next steps for viviant.54regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in japan for treatment of psoriasis vulgaris and psoriatic arthritis with inadequate response to existing therapies—march 2015eliquis (apixaban)(a)application filed in japan for treatment of venous thromboembolism—february 2015xalkori (crizotinib)application filed in the eu for first line treatment of alk-positive non-small cell lung cancer—january 2015duavive (conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifene)approval in the eu for treatment of estrogen deficiency symptoms in postmenopausal women with a uterus (with at least 12 months since the last menses) for whom treatment with progestin-containing therapy is not appropriatedecember 2014—effexor sr (venlafaxine hcl)application filed in japan for treatment of depression/depressed state—december 2014bosulif (bosutinib)approval in japan for treatment of previously treated chronic myelogenous leukemiaseptember 2014—eliquis (apixaban)(a)approval in the eu for treatment of dvt and pe, and prevention of recurrent dvt and pe in adultsjuly 2014—prevenar 13 adultapproval in japan for prevention of pneumococcal disease caused by streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6a, 6b, 7f, 9v, 14, 18c, 19a, 19f and 23f) in adults 65 years of age and olderjune 2014__*for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the european medicines agency (ema) validated our submissions.(a)this indication for eliquis (apixaban) was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms.late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductindicationbosulif (bosutinib)first-line treatment for patients with chronic phase philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with avillion groupinlyta (axitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupibrance (palbociclib)an oral and selective reversible inhibitor of the cdk 4 and 6 kinases for the first-linetreatment of patients with estrogen receptor-positive (er+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (her2-) advanced breast cancer (ex-u.s.), as well as for the treatment of recurrent advanced breast cancer and, in collaboration with the german breast group, high-risk early breast cancerlyrica (pregabalin)peripheral neuropathic pain; cr (once-a-day) dosingsutent (sunitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinomatofacitinib(a)treatment of psoriasis (ex-us), ulcerative colitis, psoriatic arthritis, and qd mr (once-a-day) dosingvyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathy(a) we are currently conducting pivotal phase 1 studies with registrational intent for tofacitinib qd.55new drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateindicationbococizumaba monoclonal antibody that inhibits pcsk9 for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and prevention of cardiovascular eventsdacomitiniba pan-her tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with egfr activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupertugliflozinan oral sglt2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merck & co., inc.inotuzumab ozogamicinan antibody drug conjugate, consisting of an anti-cd22 monotherapy antibody linked to a cytotoxic agent, calicheamycin, for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemiatrumenbaa prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b in individuals 10 through 25 years of age (ex-u.s.)avelumab (pf-06834635) (msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanypf-06836922a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency (ghd) in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with opko health, inc.pf-06438179(a)a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)pf-05280014(b)a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)pf-05280586(c)a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)pf-06439535(d)a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)tanezumab(e)an anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain(a) remicade® is a registered trademark of janssen biotech, inc.(b) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(c) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen idec, inc.(d) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(e) in march 2015, we and our alliance partner, eli lilly and company, announced that we are preparing to resume the phase 3 program for tanezumab. this announcement followed a decision by the fda to lift the partial clinical hold on the tanezumab development program after a review of nonclinical data characterizing the sympathetic nervous system response to tanezumab. a partial clinical hold had been in place for tanezumab since december 2012 due to adverse changes in the sympathetic nervous system of mature animals.additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.costs and expensescost of sales  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 % changecost of sales $1,838 $2,045 (10)as a percentage of revenues 16.9% 18.0%  cost of sales decreased 10% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to:•favorable foreign exchange of 14%; and•to a lesser extent, a decrease in the costs to implement cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, partially offset by:•an unfavorable change in product mix resulting from the impact of losses of exclusivity; and•an increase in sales volume. the decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, is primarily due to:•favorable foreign exchange; and56• to a lesser extent, a decrease in the costs to implement cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, partially offset by:•an unfavorable change in product mix.selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,104 $3,040 2as a percentage of revenues 28.6% 26.8%  si&a expenses increased 2% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to:•increased investments to support several recent product launches and other in-line products; and•a higher cost for the branded prescription drug fee compared to the same period in 2014, as si&a expenses for the first quarter of 2014 were favorably impacted by a reduction related to a true-up of the 2013 fee payable to the federal government under the u.s. healthcare legislation based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs, partially offset by:•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 5%; and•lower expenses for field force, advertising and promotional expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives.research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 % changeresearch and development expenses $1,885 $1,623 16as a percentage of revenues 17.4% 14.3%  r&d expenses increased 16% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to the $295 million upfront payment to opko in the first quarter of 2015 associated with a worldwide development and commercialization agreement.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.amortization of intangible assets  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 % changeamortization of intangible assets $940 $1,117 (16)as a percentage of revenues 8.6% 9.8%  amortization of intangible assets decreased 16% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives. see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.57restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 %changerestructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs $60 $58 3total additional depreciation—asset restructuring 18 74 (75)total implementation costs 48 32 50costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(a) $127 $164 (23)(a) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses and/or selling, informational and administrative expenses, as appropriate.costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives decreased 23% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to lower additional depreciation—asset restructuring, partially offset by higher costs to implement certain cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.in early 2014, we announced that we would be incurring costs in 2014-2016 related to new programs: our new global commercial structure reorganization and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. we also have an ongoing manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiative underway. for information about our current programs and expected total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.the expected ongoing annual cost savings associated with our current programs, in the aggregate, are estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion by the end of 2016. the expected costs and cost savings in 2015 associated with these activities are reflected in our financial guidance for 2015. see also the “our financial guidance for 2015” section of this md&a.in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.other (income)/deductions—net  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 % changeother (income)/deductions––net $(46) $623 *for information about the components of other (income)/deductions—net, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.provision for taxes on income  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 % changeprovision for taxes on income $706 $582 21effective tax rate on continuing operations 22.9% 20.4%  for information about our effective tax rate and the events and circumstances contributing to the changes between periods, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.58adjusted incomegeneral description of adjusted income measureadjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management, and we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income, and certain components of adjusted income, in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, consumer healthcare (otc) products, and vaccines––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. also, see the "adjusted income––general description of adjusted income measure" section of our 2014 financial report for additional information. similarly, we have defined the adjusted income components as revenues, cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of intangible assets and other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure and the adjusted income component measures are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for u.s. gaap net income or u.s. gaap net income components. the adjusted income measure is an important internal measurement for pfizer. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. the following are examples of how the adjusted income measure is utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income basis; and•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using this adjusted income measure. see the "adjusted income––general description of adjusted income measure" section of our 2014 financial report for additional information. despite the importance of this measure to management in goal setting and performance measurement, adjusted income is a non-gaap financial measure that has no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, has limits in its usefulness to investors. because of its non-standardized definition, adjusted income (unlike u.s. gaap net income) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income is presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as an internal measure of performance, the adjusted income measure has limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to this metric. a limitation of the adjusted income measure is that it provides a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and does not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a group of pharmaceutical industry peers, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans.see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the first quarter of 2015 and 2014 below.purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with pharmacia corporation (acquired in 2003), wyeth (acquired in 2009) and king pharmaceuticals, inc. (acquired in 2011), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets, amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.59acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their unusual nature. unusual, in this context, may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs for a program that is specific in nature with a defined term, such as those related to our new global commercial structure reorganization and our other non-acquisition-related cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals on legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.60reconciliation of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  three months ended march 29, 2015in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $10,864 $— $— $— $— $10,864cost of sales 1,838 (1) (9) — (21) 1,807selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,104 1 — — (28) 3,078research and development expenses 1,885 1 — — (10) 1,877amortization of intangible assets 940 (906) — — — 34restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 60 — (14) — (46) —other (income)/deductions––net (46) 2 — — (123) (167)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,082 903 23 — 228 4,235provision for taxes on income(b) 706 261 6 — 61 1,033income from continuing operations 2,376 641 17 — 167 3,201discontinued operations––net of tax 5 — — (5) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 6 — — — — 6net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,376 641 17 (5) 167 3,196earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.38 0.10 — — 0.03 0.51see end of tables for notes (a) and (b).   three months ended march 30, 2014in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $11,353 $— $— $— $(57) $11,296cost of sales 2,045 69 (6) — (122) 1,986selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,040 — — — (20) 3,020research and development expenses 1,623 — — — (11) 1,612amortization of intangible assets 1,117 (1,076) — — — 41restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 58 — (24) — (34) —other (income)/deductions––net 623 (1) — — (886) (264)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 2,847 1,008 30 — 1,016 4,901provision for taxes on income(b) 582 288 9 — 348 1,227income from continuing operations 2,265 720 21 — 668 3,674discontinued operations––net of tax 73 — — (73) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,329 720 21 (73) 668 3,665earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.36 0.11 — 0.01 0.10 0.57(a) for details of adjustments, see “details of income statement items excluded from adjusted income” below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 24.4% in the first quarter of 2015, compared with 25.0% in the first quarter of 2014. this decline was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by a decrease in the favorable impact of the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years, primarily with various foreign tax authorities. 61details of income statement items excluded from adjusted incomeadjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items:  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014purchase accounting adjustments    amortization, depreciation and other(a) $901 $1,077cost of sales 1 (69)total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 903 1,008income taxes(b) (261) (288)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 641 720acquisition-related costs    restructuring charges(c) (4) 6transaction costs(c) 5 —integration costs(c) 13 18additional depreciation––asset restructuring(d) 9 6total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 23 30income taxes(e) (6) (9)total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 17 21discontinued operations    discontinued operations––net of tax(f) (5) (73)discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to noncontrolling interests — —total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. (5) (73)certain significant items    restructuring charges(g) 46 34implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(h) 58 100certain legal matters, net(i) — 694certain asset impairments(i) — 114business and legal entity alignment costs(j) 101 29other(k) 23 45total certain significant items––pre-tax 228 1,016income taxes(l) (61) (348)total certain significant items––net of tax 167 668total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $820 $1,336(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. (c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. transaction costs represent external costs directly related to acquired businesses and primarily include expenditures for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes.(d) represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions. included in cost of sales for both the three months ended march 29, 2015 and march 30, 2014.(e) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. (f) included in discontinued operations––net of tax. for the three months ended march 30, 2014, represents post-close adjustments.(g) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). (h) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). 62for the three months ended march 29, 2015, included in cost of sales ($22 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($26 million) and research and development expenses ($10 million). for the three months ended march 30, 2014, included in cost of sales ($74 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($15 million) and research and development expenses ($11 million).(i) included in other (income)/deductions—net (see the “other (income)/deductions—net” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net).(j) included in other (income)/deductions––net. represents expenses for planning and implementing changes to align our operations and reporting for our business segments established in 2014.(k) virtually all included in other (income)/deductions––net.(l) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. analysis of operating segment informationthe following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our three operating segments—the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip); the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment (voc); and the global established pharmaceutical segment (gep). for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” and the "selected balance sheet information by operating segment" sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information.the following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  gip(a) voc(a) total innovative products(b) established products (gep)(a) other(c) non-gaapadjusted(d) reconciling items(d) gaap reported(millions of dollars)                first quarter of 2015                revenues $3,075 $2,664 $5,738 $5,014 $111 $10,864 $— $10,864cost of sales 342 424 766 917 124 1,807 31 1,838selling, informational and administrative expenses 808 595 1,403 704 971 3,078 27 3,104research and development expenses 623 193 816 134 927 1,877 8 1,885amortization of intangible assets 11 12 24 10 — 34 906 940restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — — 60 60other (income)/deductions––net (220) (25) (245) (7) 85 (167) 121 (46)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $1,511 $1,464 $2,975 $3,256 $(1,997) $4,235 $(1,153) $3,082see end of tables for notes (a) through (d).               (millions of dollars) gip(a) voc(a) total innovative products(b) established products (gep)(a) other(c) non-gaapadjusted(d) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedfirst quarter of 2014                revenues $3,076 $2,174 $5,250 $5,990 $56 $11,296 $57 $11,353cost of sales 415 409 824 1,025 137 1,986 59 2,045selling, informational and administrative expenses 765 531 1,296 837 887 3,020 20 3,040research and development expenses 394 184 578 138 896 1,612 11 1,623amortization of intangible assets 11 4 15 25 1 41 1,076 1,117restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — — 58 58other (income)/deductions––net (276) (11) (287) (84) 107 (264) 887 623income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $1,767 $1,057 $2,824 $4,049 $(1,972) $4,901 $(2,054) 2,847(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. (b) total innovative products represents the sum of the gip and voc segments.               63(c) other comprises the revenues and costs included in our adjusted income components (see footnote (d) below) that are managed outside  our three operating segments and includes the following:  quarter ended march 29, 2015  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii), (vi) medical(iii), (vi) corporate(iv), (vi) other unallocated(v), (vi) totalrevenues $111 $— $— $— $— $111cost of sales 86 — — 22 15 124selling, informational and administrative expenses 3 — 26 936 6 971research and development expenses 1 688 6 230 3 927amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net — (29) — 98 17 85income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $21 $(659) $(32) $(1,287) $(41) $(1,997)               quarter ended march 30, 2014  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii), (vi) medical(iii), (vi) corporate(iv), (vi) other unallocated(v), (vi) totalrevenues $56 $— $— $— $— $56cost of sales 36 — — 11 90 137selling, informational and administrative expenses 3 — 24 851 9 887research and development expenses 1 663 6 220 6 896amortization of intangible assets 1 — — — — 1restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net — (11) — 118 — 107income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $15 $(652) $(30) $(1,200) $(105) $(1,972)(i) pcs—the revenues and costs of pfizer centresource (pcs), our contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales operation. in the first quarter of 2015, pcs revenues also include revenues related to our transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis. (ii) wrd—the research and development expenses managed by our worldwide research and development organization (wrd), which is generally responsible for research projects until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the appropriate operating segment for possible clinical and commercial development. this organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities.(iii) medical—the costs associated with our pfizer medical organization (medical), which is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, partnerships with global public health and medical associations, regulatory inspection readiness reviews, internal audits of pfizer-sponsored clinical trials and internal regulatory compliance processes.(iv) corporate—the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance, and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments.(v) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations not directly attributable to an operating segment.(vi)  see the "analysis of operating segment information" section of pfizer's 2014 financial report for certain qualitative information about our other costs. this information will be provided on an annual basis.(d) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the “adjusted income” section of this md&a.             64global innovative pharmaceutical operating segment•revenues were relatively flat in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 7% on gip revenues in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. operational revenues increased by 7%, primarily due to:◦strong operational growth from lyrica, primarily in the u.s. and japan (up approximately $130 million); and◦strong operational performance from recently launched products, including eliquis globally and xeljanz, primarily in the u.s. (up approximately $170 million), partially offset by:◦generic competition for rapamune in the u.s., which began in october 2014 (down approximately $30 million).total gip revenues from emerging markets were $337 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $357 million in the first quarter of 2014.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange and an increase in alliance revenue, which has no associated cost of sales. the decrease in cost of sales of 18% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange and, to a lesser extent, by a favorable change in product mix.•selling, informational and administrative expenses increased 6% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflecting additional investment in recently launched products and certain in-line products, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange. •research and development expenses increased 58% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, reflecting incremental investment in collaborations, primarily the $295 million upfront payment to opko , partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses as a result of the completion of phase 3 studies and post marketing commitments for certain products.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflects a decrease in royalty income and a decrease in our share in the income of certain equity method investments.global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare operating segment•revenues increased 23% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, which includes an increase in operational revenues of 29%.◦global vaccines revenues increased 44% to $1,328 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $925 million in the same period in 2014, reflecting an increase in operational revenues of 51%. the increase was primarily due to an 80% increase in prevnar 13 revenue in the u.s., primarily driven by continued strong uptake among adults following the positive recommendation from the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention's advisory committee on immunization practices for use in adults aged 65 and older in the third quarter of 2014, as well as the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication compared to the same period in 2014. international revenues increased 21% operationally, driven by prevenar 13, which grew 15% operationally in the first quarter of 2015, primarily reflecting the favorable impact of prevenar's inclusion in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets compared to the same period in 2014, as well as the inclusion in the first quarter of 2015 of revenues associated with the acquisition of baxter international inc.'s portfolio of marketed vaccines in europe.foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 7% on vaccines revenues in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the first quarter of 2014. total vaccines revenues from emerging markets were $225 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $184 million in the first quarter of 2014.◦global oncology revenues increased 8% to $528 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $488 million in the same period in 2014, reflecting an increase in operational revenues of 17%, primarily driven by our launch of ibrance in the u.s. in february 2015 for advanced breast cancer, as well as continued strong underlying demand for xalkori and inlyta globally. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 9% on oncology revenues in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the first quarter of 2014. total oncology revenues from emerging markets were $86 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $75 million in the first quarter of 2014.65◦consumer healthcare revenues increased 6% to $808 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $761 million in the same period in 2014, reflecting an increase in operational revenues of 12%, primarily due to the launch of nexium 24hr in the u.s. in late-may 2014, as well as growth in the base business in certain emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 6% on consumer healthcare revenues in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the first quarter of 2014. total consumer healthcare revenues from emerging markets were $237 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $222 million in the first quarter of 2014.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange and a favorable change in product mix. the increase in cost of sales of 4% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily due to an increase in sales volumes and, to a lesser extent, an increase in royalty expense, largely offset by favorable foreign exchange. •selling informational and administrative expenses increased 12% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by promotional expenses for prevnar 13 adult indication and nexium 24hr, as well as the launch expenses for trumenba and ibrance , partially offset by favorable foreign exchange.•research and development expenses increased 5% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflecting increased investment in ibrance program expenses as well as costs associated with our anti-pd-li alliance with merck kgaa and other oncology products, partially offset by lower prevnar 13 adult and trumenba clinical spend.global established pharmaceutical operating segment•revenues decreased 16%, to $5,014 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $5,990 million in the same period in 2014, including a decrease in operational revenues of 10%, primarily due to:◦the loss of exclusivity and immediate launch of multi-source generic competition for celebrex in the u.s. in december 2014 as well as generic competition for zyvox iv in the u.s. beginning in january 2015 and for lyrica in certain developed europe markets beginning in the first quarter of 2015 (aggregate decline of approximately $450 million);◦a decline in lipitor revenues in developed markets as a result of continued generic competition (down approximately $40 million); and◦the termination in most countries of the co-promotion collaboration for spiriva, including in the u.s. (where the collaboration expired in april 2014), which has resulted in a decline in pfizer’s share of spiriva revenues (down approximately $70 million), partially offset by:◦the strong operational performance in emerging markets, where revenues increased 10% operationally, primarily driven by lipitor, viagra and norvasc (growth of approximately $90 million). foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 6% on gep revenues in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the first quarter of 2014.total gep revenues from emerging markets were $1.7 billion in both the first quarter of 2015 and 2014.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to the impact of losses of exclusivity resulting in an unfavorable change in product mix, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange. the decrease in cost of sales of 11% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange, partially offset by the unfavorable change in product mix.•selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 16% in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by a higher cost for the branded prescription drug fee compared to the prior year. •research and development expenses were largely unchanged in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflecting increased investment in biosimilars development programs, offset by lower clinical trial expenses related to postmarketing commitments, primarily for celebrex.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflects the non-recurrence of prior year gains on the sale of product rights.66selected balance sheet information by operating segmentthe following table contains selected balance sheet information by operating segment:  as of december 31, 2014(millions of dollars) gip(a), (b) voc(a), (b) gep(a), (b) corporate/ unallocated(a), (c) total companycash and cash equivalents $— $— $— $3,343 $3,343short-term investments — — — 32,779 32,779trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts 2,768 1,785 3,947 169 8,669inventories 979 1,438 2,883 363 5,663current deferred tax assets and other current tax assets 982 732 2,001 783 4,498other current assets 459 276 723 1,292 2,750total current assets         $57,702           short term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt $— $— $— $5,141 $5,141trade accounts payable 1,121 779 1,252 58 3,210dividends payable — — — 1,711 1,711income taxes payable — — — 531 531accrued compensation and related items 597 353 643 248 1,841other current liabilities 2,406 1,209 3,346 2,236 9,197total current liabilities         $21,631           other selected balance sheet information:          noncurrent inventories(d) $36 $46 $299 $44 $425(a) the selected balance sheet information is presented as of december 31, 2014 after all significant intercompany balances and transactions between legal entities have been eliminated. for subsidiaries operating outside the u.s., the selected balance sheet information is included as of november 30, 2014.the selected balance sheet information by operating segment has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of pfizer and does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had any of the operating segments been managed as a standalone company as of, or prior to, december 31, 2014 and, additionally, does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had separate financial statements been prepared for any of the operating segments on a carve-out basis as of december 31, 2014.the selected balance sheet information by operating segment has been developed for annual disclosure purposes only. we manage our assets and liabilities on a total company basis, not by operating segment, as many of our operating assets are shared or commingled.management believes that the selected balance sheet information by operating segment is reasonable. (b)    the selected balance sheet information for each operating segment has been developed as follows:•trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts––significantly all amounts were derived using specific identification methods.•inventories (including noncurrent portion)–– these amounts were derived using specific identification methods and with respect to shared inventory components, these amounts were derived using proportional allocation methods based on associated manufacturing costs and related product-specific inventory.•current deferred tax assets and other current tax assets––for current deferred tax assets, these amounts were derived by calculating the estimated tax effect of the associated attributed pre-tax amounts; for other current tax assets (prepaid taxes associated with intercompany profits that are eliminated in consolidation), these amounts were derived using proportional allocation methods based on the associated unrealized intercompany profits.67•other current assets––a majority of these amounts was derived using proportional allocation methods based on country-specific revenues, or associated costs, as appropriate, and the remaining portion was derived using specific identification methods.•trade accounts payable––the amounts were derived using specific identification methods and, to a lesser extent, using proportional allocation methods based on associated manufacturing costs, certain research and development costs or other operating costs, as appropriate.•accrued compensation and related items––a majority of these amounts were derived using proportional allocation methods based on country specific compensation expenses and, with respect to amounts related to our enabling functions and other supporting functions, based on country-specific revenues and associated operating costs, as appropriate. in addition, to a lesser extent, amounts were derived using specific identification methods.•other current liabilities–– these amounts were derived using specific identification methods or estimates for the amounts associated with each operating segment, as well as proportional allocation methods based on country, global or regional revenue, country specific manufacturing costs, certain research and development costs or other associated operating costs, as appropriate.(c) corporate/unallocated includes the following line items:•cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt and dividends payable as these accounts are predominately non-operating financial assets and liabilities. identification of amounts by operating segment is not meaningful as none of our operating segments operate as a standalone company with an identifiable debt/capital structure.•income taxes payable as this account represents liabilities associated with specific legal entities and none of our operating segments operate as a standalone company with identifiable legal entities.corporate/unallocated also includes portions of the following line items:•trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories and trade accounts payable––the portion of these accounts included as corporate/unallocated primarily relates to amounts associated with pfizer centresource, our contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales operation.•current deferred tax assets and other current tax assets––the portion of these accounts included as corporate/unallocated primarily relates to (i) net deferred tax assets associated with pre-tax amounts included in corporate/unallocated, primarily deferred tax assets associated with legal and environmental liabilities; and (ii) tax assets associated with specific legal entities as none of our operating segments operate as a standalone company with identifiable legal entities.•other current assets––the portion of these accounts included as corporate/unallocated primarily relates to derivative financial instruments. identification of these amounts by operating segment is not meaningful as none of our operating segments operate as a standalone company with an identifiable debt/capital structure.•accrued compensation and related items––the portion of these accounts included as corporate/unallocated primarily relates to our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations associated with former employees. we have not identified any of these amounts with a particular operating segment as these types of liabilities are theoretically funded through accumulated earnings and/or excess cash/investments and none of our operating segments operate as a standalone company with an identifiable debt/capital structure.•other current liabilities––the portion of these accounts included as corporate/unallocated primarily relates to:•amounts associated with legal and environmental liabilities. although some of these amounts may be associated with products sold in our current operating segments, we have not identified any of these amounts with a particular operating segment as these types of liabilities are theoretically funded through accumulated earnings and/or excess cash/investments and none of our operating segments operate as a standalone company with an identifiable debt/capital structure.•accrued interest and derivative financial instruments. identification of these amounts by operating segment is not meaningful as none of our operating segments operate as a standalone company with an identifiable debt/capital structure.(d) included in other noncurrent assets on the consolidated balance sheet.analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.68for information about certain balances in accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, see also the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a.for information about events and circumstances impacting our tax related accounts, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.all of the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of march 29, 2015, compared to december 31, 2014, generally reflect, among other things, decreases due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the following explanations exclude the impact of foreign exchange.•for trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change also reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business.•for inventories, the change also reflects the inventory acquired as part of the acquisition of baxter's portfolio, recorded at acquisition date fair value, as well as inventory builds in advance of plant shutdowns/product transfers and new product launches, partially offset by planned inventory reductions. •for property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation, the change also reflects depreciation, offset by capital additions in the normal course of business.•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change reflects amortization, partially offset by assets acquired as part of the acquisition of baxter's portfolio of marketed vaccines. for additional information about our intangible assets, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill:identifiable intangible assets. •for other noncurrent assets, the change also reflects an increase in the receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments.•for trade accounts payable, the change also reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business.•for dividends payable, the change reflects the payment of the first-quarter 2015 dividends declared on december 15, 2014.•for other current liabilities, the change also reflects payments of certain legal claims, as well as the timing of other payments and accruals in the normal course of business.•for pension benefit obligations, net and postretirement benefit obligations, net, the change also reflects, among other things, a $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in january 2015. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for other noncurrent liabilities, the change also reflects an increase in the payables associated with our derivative financial instruments and, to a lesser extent, the deferral of an upfront payment received from eli lilly and company as part of a collaboration agreement.for accumulated other comprehensive loss, the change primarily reflects foreign currency translation adjustments for the first quarter of 2015, primarily the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, canadian dollar, brazilian real, australian dollar, mexican peso and u.k. pound.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows  three months ended  (millions of dollars) march 29, 2015 march 30, 2014 % changecash provided by/(used in):      operating activities $685 $2,935 (77)investing activities 6,592 (98) *financing activities (6,982) (2,133) *effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (74) (25) *net increase in cash and cash equivalents $220 $679 (68)*calculation not meaningful.in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the line item called other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes 69do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $685 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $2.9 billion in the same period of 2014. the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects a $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in january 2015, as well as the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, including payments of certain legal claims.in the first quarter of 2015 and 2014, the line item called other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities. for the first quarter of 2014, this line item includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the increase in our legal accruals that had not been paid by march 30, 2014, primarily for neurontin-related matters. for additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a. for additional information about our legal accruals, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions-net.investing activitiesour net cash provided by investing activities was $6.6 billion in the first quarter of 2015, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $98 million in the same period in 2014. the increase in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to:•net redemptions of investments of $7.2 billion in the first quarter of 2015, compared to net purchases of investments of $6.0 million in the first quarter of 2014,partially offset by:•cash paid of $678 million, net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of baxter's portfolio of marketed vaccines in the first quarter of 2015 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisition, collaborative arrangements and equity-method investment: acquisition.)financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $7.0 billion in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $2.1 billion in the same period in 2014. the increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•purchases of common stock of $6.0 billion in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $1.2 billion in the first quarter of 2014, and•net payments on borrowings of $140 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to net proceeds from borrowings of $276 million in the first quarter of 2014,partially offset by:•proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $794 million in the first quarter of 2015, compared to $425 million in the first quarter of 2014.analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our research and development activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;•share repurchases;70•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both standard & poor’s (s&p) and moody’s investors service (moody's). see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified and available-for-sale debt securities.selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) march 29, 2015 december 31, 2014selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $3,563 $3,343short-term investments(a) 24,145 32,779long-term investments(a) 18,289 17,518  45,997 53,640debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 6,555 5,141long-term debt 29,370 31,541  35,925 36,682net financial assets(b) $10,073 $16,958     working capital $29,221 $36,071ratio of current assets to current liabilities 2.45:1 2.67:1total pfizer inc. shareholders' equity per common share(c) $10.94 $11.33(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of the credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) net financial assets decreased as net cash provided by operating activities decreased, and dividend payments and share purchases, among other things, more than offset the net redemptions of investments and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. for additional information, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a.(c) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury shares).for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.agreement to acquire hospira, inc. (hospira)on february 5, 2015, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we agreed to acquire hospira, the world’s leading provider of injectable drugs and infusion technologies and a global leader in biosimilars, for $90 per share in cash, for a total enterprise value of approximately $17 billion. we expect to finance the transaction through a combination of existing cash and new debt, with approximately two-thirds of the value financed from cash and one-third from debt. the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals in several jurisdictions and the approval of hospira's shareholders, and is expected to close in the second half of 2015.71domestic and international short-term fundsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. we generally hold up to $10 billion of these short-term funds in u.s. tax jurisdictions. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). repatriation of overseas funds can result in additional u.s. federal, state and local income tax payments. we record u.s. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s., no accrual for u.s. taxes is provided.accounts receivablewe continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. historically, payments from a number of these european governments and government agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. there have been improvements in the amount of outstanding accounts receivable balances in excess of one year.we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments).as of march 29, 2015, we had about $719 million in aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in italy, spain, greece and portugal where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $78 million, were as follows: $35 million in italy; $22 million in spain; $11 million in portugal; and $10 million in greece.although certain european governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs.we will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts.our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. for information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions included in our 2014 financial report.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured non-credit-enhanced long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debt date of last rating change rating ratingoutlook moody’s p-1 a1stable october 2009s&p a-1+ aastable october 2009debt capacitywe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term 72borrowings. as of march 29, 2015, we had access to $8.3 billion of lines of credit, of which $758 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $8.0 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request. also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2019, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.see also "agreement to acquire hospira" above.global economic conditions––generalthe global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. global economic conditions––venezuela operations our venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 of venezuelan currency to the u.s. dollar. we incurred a foreign currency loss of $80 million immediately on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local balance sheets, and have experienced and expect to continue to experience adverse impacts to our earnings as our revenues and expenses in venezuela continue to be translated into u.s. dollars at the lower 6.3 rate.in the first quarter of 2015, the venezuelan government identified three official rates of exchange. these are the cencoex rate of 6.3; the sicad rate (a combination of the former sicad i and sicad ii rates, but with no notice of exchanges since february 10, 2015 when reported at 52.1); and, the simadi rate of 170 beginning on february 12, 2015 and rising to approximately 190 since then. we continue to use the cencoex rate of 6.3 to report our venezuela financial position, results of operations and cash flows, since we believe that the nature of our business operations in venezuela (the importation, manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products and, to a lesser extent, consumer healthcare goods) would qualify for the most preferential rates permitted by law. we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the venezuelan currency or whether our use of the 6.3 rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. further, other potential actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically.as of march 29, 2015, our net monetary assets in venezuela that are subject to revaluation totaled approximately $619 million (remeasured at the 6.3 rate). during the first quarter of 2015, our revenues from venezuela totaled approximately $214 million (converted using the 6.3 rate). these amounts may grow in the future.off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. these indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of march 29, 2015, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications are not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.73share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreementon june 27, 2013, we announced that the board of directors had authorized a $10 billion share-purchase plan, which was exhausted in the first quarter of 2015. on october 23, 2014, we announced that the board of directors had authorized an additional $11 billion share-purchase plan, and share purchases commenced thereunder in january 2015. on february 9, 2015, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with goldman, sachs & co. (gs&co.) to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. pursuant to the terms of the agreement, approximately 150 million shares of our common stock were received by us on february 11, 2015. at settlement of the agreement, which is expected to occur during or prior to the third quarter of 2015, gs&co. may be required to deliver additional shares of common stock to us, or, under certain circumstances, we may be required to deliver shares of our common stock or may elect to make a cash payment to gs&co., with the number of shares to be delivered or the amount of such payment based on the difference between the volume-weighted average price, less a discount, of our common stock during the term of the transaction and the initial $5 billion paid. this agreement was entered into pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase authorization.the following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share-purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreement:  three months ended(shares in millions, dollars in billions) march 29,2015(a) march 30,2014shares of common stock purchased 182 38cost of purchase $6.0 $1.2(a)includes approximately 150 million shares purchased for $5 billion pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement.after giving effect to share purchases through march 29, 2015, our remaining share-purchase authorization was approximately $5.5 billion. after repurchasing $6.0 billion of our common stock in the first quarter of 2015, we have already met our 2015 share repurchase target and do not currently expect to repurchase additional shares this year.dividends on common stockin april 2015, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.28 per share, payable june 2, 2015, to shareholders of record at the close of business on may 8, 2015.new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standard.74recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of march 29, 2015the following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: standard description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant matters       in november 2014, financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued amended guidance related to accounting for hybrid financial instruments issued or held as investments. the new guidance clarifies that for hybrid financial instruments in the form of stock, the assessment of whether the embedded derivative is clearly and closely related to the host instrument must consider the economic characteristics and risks of the entire hybrid financial instrument, including the embedded derivative feature that is being evaluated for separate accounting from the host contract.  january 1, 2016 we do not expect that the provisions of this new standard will have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in august 2014, the fasb issued amended guidance related to disclosure of uncertainties about the ability of an entity to continue as a going concern. the new guidance requires management of all entities to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern and, as necessary, to provide related footnote disclosures. december 31, 2016 we do not expect that the provisions of this new standard will have any impact on our consolidated financial statements.in may 2014, the fasb issued amended guidance related to revenue from contracts with customers. the new guidance introduces a new principles-based framework for revenue recognition and disclosure. january 1, 2017. early adoption is not permitted.(a) we have not yet decided on a method of adoption (full retrospective or modified retrospective basis) and we have not yet determined the potential impact, if any, of this standard on our consolidated financial statements.(a) in april 2015, the fasb issued an exposure draft to propose a one-year deferral of the effective date. 75forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “forecast,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating or financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our recently-announced proposed acquisition of hospira, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2015” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the “restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company's pension and postretirement plans during 2015 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; and decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products;•the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;•risks associated with interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication;•the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframe or at all, including our and hospira’s ability to satisfy the conditions to closing our merger agreement;•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;•the implementation by the fda of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products in the u.s., with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•the ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;•difficulties or delays in manufacturing;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;76•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment;•the impact of any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on the pharmaceutical industry as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort;• the impact of u.s. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010—the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act––and of any modification or repeal of any of the provisions thereof;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; direct-to-consumer advertising and interactions with healthcare professionals; and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures as a result of highly competitive insurance markets;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products and government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest and unstable governments and legal systems;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs, the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to product liability, patent protection, government investigations, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental and tax issues, ongoing efforts to explore various means for resolving asbestos litigation, and other legal proceedings;•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesaler customers, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate;77•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; and•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls and withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our research and development organization, of the internal separation of our commercial operations into our new operating structure and of our proposed acquisition of hospira.we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q, 8-k and 10-k reports and our other filings with the sec.our 2014 annual report on form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. the selected balance sheet information by operating segment has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of pfizer and does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had any of the operating segments been managed as a standalone company as of, or prior to, december 31, 2014 and, additionally, does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had separate financial statements been prepared for any of the operating segments on a carve-out basis as of december 31, 2014.this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings inpart i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.78