item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&a)introductionour md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:•overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook. this section, beginning on page 39, provides information about the following: our business; the proposed combination with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca); our performance during the first quarter of 2014 and 2013; our operating environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2014.•analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income. this section begins on page 47, and consists of the following sub-sections:◦revenues and product developments. this sub-section, beginning on page 47, provides an analysis of our revenues and products for the first quarter of 2014 and 2013, including an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.◦costs and expenses. this sub-section, beginning on page 57, provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.◦provision for taxes on income. this sub-section, on page 61, provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.◦discontinued operations. this sub-section, on page 61, provides an analysis of the financial statement impact of our discontinued operations.◦adjusted income. this sub-section, beginning on page 61, provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management.◦analysis of operating segment information. this sub-section, beginning on page 67, provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments.•analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income. this section, on page 71, provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income.•analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets. this section, beginning on page 71, provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts.•analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. this section, beginning on page 72, provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first three months of 2014 and 2013.•analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources. this section, beginning on page 73, provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of march 30, 2014 and december 31, 2013, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of march 30, 2014 and december 31, 2013. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer's future activities.•new accounting standards. this section, on page 77, discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted.•forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results. this section, beginning on page 77, provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a relating to, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation,  plans relating to share repurchases and dividends and business-development plans, including with respect to a possible combination with astrazeneca. such forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations about future events, which are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.37the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 %changerevenues $11,353 $12,410 (9)       cost of sales 2,045 2,263 (10)% of revenues 18.0% 18.2%         selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,040 3,217 (6)% of revenues 26.8% 25.9%         research and development expenses 1,623 1,710 (5)% of revenues 14.3% 13.8%         amortization of intangible assets 1,117 1,219 (8)% of revenues 9.8% 9.8%         restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 58 131 (56)% of revenues 0.5% 1.1%         other deductions––net 623 145 *income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 2,847 3,725 (24)% of revenues 25.1% 30.0%         provision for taxes on income 582 1,109 (48)effective tax rate 20.4% 29.8%         income from continuing operations 2,265 2,616 (13)% of revenues 20.0% 21.1%         discontinued operations––net of tax 73 149 (51)       net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 2,338 2,765 (15)% of revenues 20.6% 22.3%         less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 15 (40)net income attributable to pfizer inc. $2,329 $2,750 (15)% of revenues 20.5% 22.2%         earnings per common share––basic:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.35 $0.36 (3)discontinued operations––net of tax 0.01 0.02 (50)net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.36 $0.38 (5)       earnings per common share––diluted:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.35 $0.36 (3)discontinued operations––net of tax 0.01 0.02 (50)net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.36 $0.38 (5)       cash dividends paid per common share $0.26 $0.24 8* calculation not meaningful.certain amounts and percentages may reflect rounding adjustments.38overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies (alliance revenues).we manage our commercial operations through a global commercial structure consisting of three operating segments, each of which is led by a single manager––the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip); the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment (voc); and the global established pharmaceutical segment (gep). each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain in-process research and development (ipr&d) projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof of concept. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the “our strategy” section of this md&a below.the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the united states (u.s.) is as of and for the three months ended february 23, 2014 and february 24, 2013. proposed combination with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca)on april 28, 2014, pfizer issued an announcement pursuant to rule 2.4 of the u.k. city code on takeovers and mergers disclosing that (a) in january 2014, pfizer submitted a preliminary, non-binding indication of interest to the board of directors of astrazeneca regarding a possible merger transaction with astrazeneca; (b) after limited high-level discussions, astrazeneca declined to pursue negotiations, the discussions were discontinued on january 14, 2014 and pfizer then ceased to consider a possible transaction; and (c) in light of recent market developments, pfizer contacted astrazeneca on april 26, 2014 seeking to renew discussions, but astrazeneca again declined to engage. on may 2, 2014, pfizer issued an announcement pursuant to rule 2.4 of the u.k. city code on takeovers and mergers disclosing, among other things, that, having consulted with major shareholders, it submitted a revised written proposal to astrazeneca to make an offer to combine the two companies pursuant to which astrazeneca shareholders would receive, for each astrazeneca share, 1.845 shares in the combined entity and 1,598 pence in cash. the revised proposal was rejected by astrazeneca. pfizer is considering its options with respect to astrazeneca.our first quarter 2014 performancerevenues in the first quarter of 2014 were $11.4 billion, a decrease of 9% compared to the same period in 2013, which reflects an operational decrease of $693 million, or 6%. the operational decrease was primarily the result of:•the expiration of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement for enbrel in the u.s. and canada (approximately $375 million);•the ongoing expiration of the spiriva collaboration in certain countries (approximately $181 million);•the continued erosion of branded lipitor in the u.s. and most other developed markets due to generic competition (approximately $158 million);•the loss of exclusivity and subsequent multi-source generic competition for detrol la in the u.s. and viagra, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity in most major european markets, (aggregate decline of approximately $191 million); and•the loss of exclusivity for certain other products (approximately $128 million),partially offset by:•the operational growth of lyrica, xalkori and inlyta globally, enbrel outside of the u.s. and canada, and eliquis and xeljanz, primarily in the u.s., as well as the contribution from the collaboration with mylan inc. to market generic drugs in japan (approximately $350 million); and •revenues from the transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis inc. (zoetis), our former animal health business (approximately $57 million).39in addition, revenues were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange by approximately $364 million, or 3%, in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013.income from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2014 was $2.3 billion, compared to $2.6 billion in the first quarter of 2013, primarily reflecting, among other items, in addition to the lower revenues described above:•higher legal charges (up $777 million), primarily due to neurontin- and effexor-related matters. see the "costs and expenses––other deductions––net" section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other deductions––net; and•the non-recurrence of the gain associated with the transfer of certain product rights to our joint venture with zhejiang hisun pharmaceuticals co., ltd. (hisun) in china in the first quarter of 2013 ($490 million), partially offset by:•a lower effective tax rate, (down 9.4 percentage points to 20.4%) primarily due to the favorable impact of the resolution in the first quarter of 2014 of certain tax positions, pertaining to prior years, primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and from the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, the non-recurrence of the unfavorable tax impact associated with the aforementioned transfer of certain product rights to our 49%-owned equity-method investment in china, as well as the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by the expiration of the u.s. research and development (r&d) tax credit on december 31, 2013 (see also the “costs and expenses––provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a, notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. divestiture and equity-method investments: equity-method investments);•lower asset impairment and related charges (down $380 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––other deductions––net" section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives) and note 4. other deductions––net; and•lower operational expenses due to the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives•higher net gains on asset disposals (up by $155 million), primarily due to gains on sales of product rights and gains on sales of investments in equity securities. see the "costs and expenses––other deductions––net" section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other deductions––net.see also the “discontinued operations” section of this md&a.our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesthe majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2013 annual report on form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity and the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition among branded products.intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues.we have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and certain of our products and alliance products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights" section of our 2013 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our 2013 annual report on form 10-k, for information about (i) recent losses of product exclusivity impacting product revenues, (ii) recent and expected losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues and (iii) losses and expected losses of product exclusivity in 2014.on april 29, 2014, the 10-year alliance between boehringer ingelheim and pfizer  for the promotion and marketing of spiriva in the u.s. came to an end. boehringer ingelheim now exclusively markets and supplies spiriva in the u.s.40in addition, we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years. for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, "business", of our 2013 annual report on form 10-k.our 2014 adjusted financial guidance reflects the projected impact of the loss of exclusivity of various products and the expiration of certain alliance product contract rights discussed above. our 2014 adjusted financial guidance continues to reflect a full-year contribution from celebrex in the u.s. if necessary, we will update our guidance when we are in a better position to make an informed judgment about the market exclusivity of celebrex in the u.s. from may 30 through the end of this year. for additional information about our 2014 financial guidance, see the “our financial guidance for 2014” section of this md&a.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “revenues––major products” section of this md&a. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (together, the u.s. healthcare legislation, and also known as the affordable care act or aca), was enacted in the u.s. as explained more fully in our 2013 annual report on form 10-k, this legislation has resulted in both current and longer-term impacts on us. we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:•$176 million in the first quarter of 2014 and $128 million in the first quarter of 2013, recorded as a reduction to revenues, related to the higher, extended and expanded rebate provisions and the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and •$29 million of income in the first quarter of 2014 and $55 million of expense in the first quarter of 2013, recorded in selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. the income in the first quarter of 2014 is driven by a true-up associated with the final 2013 invoice received from the federal government, which reflected a lower share than the initial 2013 invoice.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. government and other payer group pressures•budget control act of 2011—in august 2011, the federal budget control act of 2011 (the budget control act) was enacted in the u.s. in december 2013, congress enacted minor amendments to the budget control act, providing for greater discretionary spending in 2014 and 2015 than originally budgeted. the amendments also provide for u.s. food and drug administration (fda) user fee sequester relief for two years, allowing the fda to continue to review new products. the new legislation continues to prohibit reductions in payments to medicare providers from exceeding a 2% reduction of the originally budgeted amount, and extends this prohibition for two years (until 2023). the implications to pfizer of these changes are expected to be nominal. however, any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement for the budget control act, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.•sustainable growth rate replacement—the medicare physician payment formula known as the sustainable growth rate (sgr) is routinely overridden by congressional action because it would lead to dramatic decreases in physician payment. on april 1, 2014, the president signed into law another extension that will maintain physician payment through march 2015. prior to expiration of the extension, it is likely that congress will consider legislation to permanently repeal the sgr and replace it with a new payment model. the congressional budget office has estimated that the cost to the federal government of repealing and replacing the sgr would be approximately $130 billion over 10 years. the source of those funds could include additional taxes on and/or rebate requirements applicable to the pharmaceutical industry, including pfizer. •federal debt ceiling—after the u.s. federal debt ceiling was reached on may 19, 2013 and measures taken by the u.s. treasury department to enable the u.s. federal government to continue meeting its financial obligations were nearly exhausted, congress enacted legislation on october 16, 2013 that suspended the debt ceiling through february 7, 2014 and preserved the ability of the u.s. treasury department to use “extraordinary measures” to avoid a default on u.s. federal government debt for a short period of time thereafter. in february 2014, congress enacted legislation that further suspends the debt ceiling until march 15, 2015, effectively ensuring the u.s. federal government’s ability to satisfy its financial 41obligations until that date, including under medicare, medicaid and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that have a direct impact on our results of operations. as the healthcare cost growth rate in the u.s. continues to outpace inflation, cost-reduction and access pressures are increasing in intensity. containing entitlement spending, including medicare and medicaid, is a major focus of deficit-reduction efforts. the aca, which expanded the role of the u.s. government as a healthcare payer, is accelerating changes in the u.s. healthcare marketplace, and the potential for additional pricing and access pressures continues to be significant. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca imposed in 2018, are already scaling back healthcare benefits. overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and treat-to-goal. in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, and as explained more fully in our 2013 annual report on form 10-k, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment, which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the u.s., europe and japan, and in a number of emerging markets. •we believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including relatively high unemployment levels, and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments to reduce their costs. challenging economic conditions in the u.s. also have increased the number of patients in the medicaid program (and the number will continue to grow as a result of the medicaid coverage expansion in the affordable care act effective in some states in 2014), under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. in addition, we continue to experience pricing pressure in various markets around the world, including in developed european markets, japan and in a number of emerging markets, with government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products and government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries. furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to restricted access to and lower prices for new medicines.•we continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. for further information about our accounts receivable, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.•significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, australian dollar, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a. despite the challenging financial markets, pfizer maintains a strong financial position. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to 42believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both standard & poor’s (s&p) and moody’s investors service. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a; in part ii, item 1a, “risk factors”, of this quarterly report on form 10-q; and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors,” of our 2013 annual report on form 10-k.our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our products and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize access to patients and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company's purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. see also the "proposed combination with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca)" section of this md&a above.commercial operationsat the beginning of our fiscal year 2014, we began managing our commercial operations through a new global commercial structure consisting of three operating segments, each of which is led by a single manager––the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip); the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment (voc); and the global established pharmaceutical segment (gep). a significant change effected by our new structure is the full integration of emerging markets into each business. emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our new structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets.some additional information about each product grouping follows:•global innovative pharmaceutical segment––gip comprises medicines within several therapeutic areas that are generally expected to have market exclusivity beyond 2015. these therapeutic areas include immunology and inflammation, cardiovascular/metabolic, neuroscience and pain, rare diseases and women's/men's health. •global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment––voc focuses on the development and commercialization of vaccines and products for oncology and consumer healthcare. each of the three businesses that comprise this segment operates with distinct specialization in terms of the science, talent and market approach necessary to deliver value to consumers and patients. •global established pharmaceutical segment––gep includes the brands that have lost market exclusivity and, generally, the mature, patent-protected products that are expected to lose exclusivity through 2015 in most major markets and, to a much smaller extent, generic pharmaceuticals. additionally, gep includes our sterile injectable products and biosimilar development portfolio.we expect that the gip and voc biopharmaceutical portfolios of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line products will be sustained by ongoing internal investments and targeted business development designed to maximize the value of our in-line products and ensure a robust pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by these groups are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. in addition, voc includes our consumer healthcare business, which manufactures and markets several well-known over-the-counter (otc) products. gep is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. gep leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to advance its 43biosimilar development portfolio. gep may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.for additional information about our operating structure, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.for additional information about the first quarter 2014 performance of each of our operating segments, see the "analysis of operating segment information" section of this md&a. research operationswe continue to transform our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules––immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. other areas of focus include rare diseases and biosimilars. while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek to expand our pipeline by entering into agreements with other companies to develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. collaboration, alliance and license agreements and acquisitions allow us to capitalize on these compounds to expand our pipeline of potential future products. in addition, collaborations and alliances allow us to share risk and to access external scientific and technological expertise.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the "analysis of operating segment information" section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments” section of this md&a. for additional information about current and recent restructuring activities, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline and maximize the value of our in-line products, see the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.business developmentwe continue to build on our broad portfolio of businesses and to expand our r&d pipeline through various business development transactions. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, enhance our product portfolio and maximize the value of our in-line products, see the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.see also the "proposed combination with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca)" section of this md&a above.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. for additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through dividends and share repurchases. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share purchases and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a.44our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, dispositions and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we are especially interested in opportunities in our high-priority therapeutic areas––immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines––and in emerging markets and established products. other areas of focus include rare diseases and biosimilars. we assess our businesses and assets as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities for our businesses.see also the "proposed combination with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca)" section of this md&a above.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 28, 2014, the filing date of our 2013 annual report on form 10-k, see the "our business development initiatives" section of our 2013 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our 2013 annual report on form 10-k. certain of those transactions are described below:•viiv healthcare limited (viiv)––on january 21, 2014, the european commission approved tivicay (dolutegravir), a product for the treatment of hiv-1 infection, developed by viiv, an equity method investee. this approval, in accordance with the agreement between glaxosmithkline plc and pfizer, triggered a reduction in our equity interest in viiv from 12.6% to 11.7% and an increase in glaxosmithkline plc’s equity interest in viiv from 77.4% to 78.3%, effective april 1, 2014. as a result, in the first quarter of 2014, we recognized a loss of approximately $36 million in other deductions––net. we continue to account for our investment in viiv under the equity method due to the significant influence that we continue to have through our board representation and minority veto rights.•zoetis––on june 24, 2013, we completed the full disposition of zoetis inc. (zoetis). the full disposition was completed through a series of steps, including, in the first quarter of 2013, the formation of zoetis and an initial public offering (ipo) of an approximate 19.8% interest in zoetis and, in the second quarter of 2013, an exchange offer for the remaining 80.2% interest. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. divestiture and equity-method investments: divestiture.•hisun pfizer pharmaceuticals company limited (hisun pfizer)––on september 6, 2012, we and zhejiang hisun pharmaceuticals co., ltd. (hisun), a leading pharmaceutical company in china, formed a new company, hisun pfizer, 49% owned by pfizer and 51% owned by hisun, to develop, manufacture, market and sell pharmaceutical products, primarily branded generic products, predominately in china. in the first quarter of 2013, we and hisun contributed certain assets to hisun pfizer. our contributions constituted a business, as defined by u.s. gaap, and in the first quarter of 2013, we recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $490 million in other deductions––net. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. divestiture and equity-method investments: equity-method investments.•nexium otc rights––in august 2012, we entered into an agreement with astrazeneca for the exclusive, global, otc rights for nexium, a leading prescription drug currently approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. at that time, we made an upfront payment of $250 million to astrazeneca. on march 28, 2014, the fda approved nexium 24hr (esomeprazole 20 mg) for otc use. pfizer expects to launch the product in the u.s. on may 27, 2014. upon the u.s. launch of the product, pfizer will pay astrazeneca a $200 million product launch milestone. the payment for this consumer healthcare asset acquisition will be recorded as an intangible asset on pfizer’s balance sheet and will be amortized to expense over the estimated commercial life of the product. astrazeneca will be eligible to receive future milestone payments of up to $350 million based on product launches outside the u.s and level of worldwide sales, as well as royalty payments based on worldwide sales.45our financial guidance for 2014we confirm that all components of our adjusted financial guidance issued on january 28, 2014 remain valid. the following table provides our adjusted financial guidance for 2014(a), (b), (c):adjusted revenues$49.2 to $51.2 billionadjusted cost of sales as a percentage of adjusted revenues19.0% to 20.0%adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$13.5 to $14.5 billionadjusted research and development expenses$6.4 to $6.9 billionadjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately $100 millioneffective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 27.0%adjusted diluted eps$2.20 to $2.30(a) does not assume the completion of any business-development transactions not completed as of march 30, 2014, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. (b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the "adjusted income" section of this md&a.(c) the adjusted financial guidance continues to reflect a full-year contribution from celebrex in the u.s. if necessary, we will update our guidance when we are in a better position to make an informed judgment about the market exclusivity of celebrex in the u.s. from may 30 through the end of this year.the exchange rates assumed in connection with the 2014 financial guidance are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through march 30, 2014 and the mid-april 2014 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. adjusted diluted eps guidance assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.4 billion shares.revenues and cost of sales from the transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis have been excluded from the applicable adjusted components of the financial guidance.due to the applicability of the u.k. city code on takeovers and mergers to our proposed combination with astrazeneca, pending reports from our reporting accountants and financial advisers in accordance with the u.k. city code on takeovers and mergers, pfizer is not currently permitted to confirm or update its 2014 reported diluted eps guidance in accordance with its customary quarterly practice. preparation of these reports is underway. because pfizer has recorded a number of charges during the first quarter of 2014 relating to the resolution of litigation-related matters, pfizer's previously issued 2014 reported diluted eps guidance is no longer valid. updated reported diluted eps guidance will be provided as soon as practicable.as required by the u.k. city code on takeovers and mergers, the pfizer responsible officers (ian read, chairman and chief executive officer; frank d'amelio, executive vice president, business operations and chief financial officer; and douglas lankler, executive vice president, general counsel) confirm that the adjusted financial guidance provided above (i) has been properly compiled based on the same assumptions set out in the adjusted financial guidance issued on january 28, 2014; and (ii) has been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies of pfizer.our 2014 adjusted financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties—as described in the “our operating environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; part ii, item 1a, “risk factors,” of this quarterly report on form 10-q; the “our operating environment” and “our strategy” sections of our 2013 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our 2013 annual report on form 10-k; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors,” of our 2013 annual report on form 10-k.46analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomerevenues and product developmentsrevenues - overviewthe following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geographic area:  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) mar 30, 2014 mar 31, 2013 mar 30, 2014 mar 31, 2013 mar 30, 2014 mar 31, 2013 % change in revenuesthree months ended                  operating segments(a):                  gip $3,076 $3,306 $1,327 $1,544 $1,749 $1,762 (7) (14) (1)voc 2,174 2,190 1,001 994 1,173 1,196 (1) 1 (2)gep 5,990 6,861 1,904 2,357 4,086 4,504 (13) (19) (9)  11,240 12,357 4,232 4,895 7,008 7,462 (9) (14) (6)other(b) 113 53 43 19 70 34 113 126 106total revenues $11,353 $12,410 $4,275 $4,914 $7,078 $7,496 (9) (13) (6)                   biopharmaceutical revenues $10,479 $11,546 $3,887 $4,517 $6,592 $7,029 (9) (14) (6)(a) gip = the global innovative pharmaceutical segment; voc = the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment; and gep = the global established pharmaceutical segment.(b) includes revenues generated from pfizer centresource, our contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales organization, and includes, in 2014, the revenues related to our transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis.biopharmaceutical revenuesworldwide biopharmaceutical revenues in the first quarter of 2014 were $10.5 billion, a decrease of $1.1 billion compared to the same period in 2013. in addition to the operational factors noted in the our first quarter 2014 performance section of this md&a, foreign exchange unfavorably impacted biopharmaceutical revenues by $343 million, or 3%.geographically, •in the u.s., biopharmaceutical revenues decreased $630 million, or 14%, in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013, reflecting, among other things:◦lower alliance revenues, primarily due to enbrel, reflecting the expiration of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement in october 2013 (down approximately $351 million), and spiriva, reflecting the final-year terms of the co-promotion collaboration, which, per the terms of the collaboration agreement, resulted in a decline of our share of spiriva revenue (down approximately $149 million); and◦lower revenues from lipitor and detrol la due to loss of exclusivity (down approximately $224 million),partially offset by:◦the strong performance of lyrica (up approximately $76 million) as well as the performance of recently launched products eliquis and xeljanz (up a combined $66 million).•in our international markets, biopharmaceutical revenues decreased $437 million, or 6%, in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. operationally, revenues decreased $94 million, or 1%, in the first quarter of 2014, reflecting, among other things:◦lower revenues from viagra and lipitor (down a combined $114 million), due to loss of exclusivity of lipitor in most developed markets and viagra in most european markets;◦lower alliance revenues (down approximately $80 million), primarily due to spiriva (in japan and certain european markets) and for enbrel (in canada) for the reasons described above, as well as for aricept due to the termination of the co-promotion agreement in japan in 2012; and◦lower revenues for sutent, primarily in emerging markets due to the timing of purchases, chantix/champix in developed markets, xalabrands and aricept (a combined decline of approximately $71 million),47partially offset by:◦higher revenues for enbrel outside of canada, lyrica in developed markets, and the performance of recently launched products xalkori, inlyta and eliquis (collectively, up approximately $152 million).the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on international biopharmaceutical revenues of 5%, or approximately $343 million, in the first quarter of 2014 also contributed to a decrease in biopharmaceutical revenues from our international markets.during the first quarter of 2014, international biopharmaceutical revenues represented 62.9% of total biopharmaceutical revenues, compared to 60.9% in the first quarter of 2013.for additional information about operating segment revenues, see the "analysis of operating segment information" section of this md&a.rebates and chargebacksas is typical in the biopharmaceutical industry, our gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions, that generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized and primarily represent rebates and discounts to government agencies, wholesalers, distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our pharmaceutical products. these deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, judgment and knowledge of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these sales deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.historically, our adjustments to actual results have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments to actual results generally have been less than 1% of biopharmaceutical net sales and can result in either a net increase or a net decrease in income. product-specific rebate charges, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends.the following table provides information about certain deductions from revenues:  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013medicaid and related state program rebates(a) $172 $152medicare rebates(a) 240 156performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 513 477chargebacks(c) 833 993sales allowances(d) 941 1,027total(e) $2,699 $2,805(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with managed care customers within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. outside of the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent pharmaceutical rebates, discounts and price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside of the u.s.(e) for the three months ended march 30, 2014, associated with the following: the global innovative pharmaceutical segment ($0.7 billion); the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment ($0.2 billion); and the global established pharmaceutical segment ($1.8 billion). for the three months ended march 31, 2013, associated with the following: the global innovative pharmaceutical segment ($0.6 billion); the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment ($0.2 billion); and the global established pharmaceutical segment ($2.0 billion).the total rebates and chargebacks for the first quarter of 2014 decreased compared to the same period in 2013, primarily as a result of:•a decrease in sales chargebacks for certain products in the u.s. that have lost exclusivity and for certain of our generic products; and•a decrease in sales allowances representing various rebates and discounts driven by emerging markets such as china, africa, the middle east and eastern europe,partially offset by:•an increase in medicare rebates due to higher volume in the medicare patient population; and48•an increase in performance-based contract rebates as a result of contract arrangements and incentives, primarily in europe and china.our accruals for medicaid rebates, medicare rebates, performance-based contract rebates, sales allowances and chargebacks were $3.0 billion as of march 30, 2014, and $3.3 billion as of december 31, 2013, and primarily are included in other current liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 49revenues—major biopharmaceutical productsthe following table provides detailed revenue information:    three months ended(millions of dollars)   march 30, 2014 % change(b)productprimary indications business(a)  lyrica(c)epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury gip/gep $1,150 8prevnar familyvaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease v 927 -enbrel (outside the u.s. & canada)rheumatoid, juvenile rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis gip 914 4celebrexarthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain gep 624 (4)lipitorreduction of ldl cholesterol gep 457 (27)viagra(d)erectile dysfunction gep/gip  374 (19)zyvoxbacterial infections gep 321 (6)norvaschypertension gep 278 (8)sutentadvanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mrcc), refractory gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist) and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor o 268 (11)premarin familysymptoms of menopause gep 248 2benefixhemophilia gip 201 6vfendfungal infections gep 177 (5)pristiqdepression gep 172 4genotropinreplacement of human growth hormone gip 166 (12)chantix/champixan aid to smoking cessation treatment gip 147 (11)refacto af/xynthahemophilia gip 145 4xalatan/xalacomglaucoma and ocular hypertension gep 119 (19)medrolinflammation gep 106 (6)zoloftdepression and certain anxiety disorders gep 101 (13)zithromax/zmaxbacterial infections gep 92 (21)sulperazonantibiotic gep 88 24inlytaadvanced renal cell carcinoma (rcc) o 88 40xalkorianaplastic lymphoma kinase positive non-small cell lung cancer o 88 66rapamuneprevention of organ rejection in kidney transplantation gip 88 5relpaxtreats the symptoms of migraine headache gep 87 1effexor depression and certain anxiety disorders gep 82 (22)fragminanticoagulant gep 81 (6)revatiopulmonary arterial hypertension (pah) gep 76 6zosyn/tazocinantibiotic gep 74 (15)tygacilantibiotic gep 74 (15)cardurahypertension/benign prostatic hyperplasia gep 66 (13)toviazoveractive bladder gip 63 21epipenepinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions gep 63 (13)insprahigh blood pressure gep 61 17xanax/xanax xranxiety disorders gep 59 (16)depo-provera contraceptive gep 53 43diflucanfungal infections gep 52 16xeljanzrheumatoid arthritis gip 52 *caduetreduction of ldl cholesterol and hypertension gep 50 (11)somavertacromegaly gip 50 4alliance revenues(e)various gep/gip 213 (71)all other biopharmaceutical(f)various gip/gep/v/o 1,884 (13)all other gip(f)  gip 145 (13)all other gep(f)  gep 1,697 (13)all other v/o(f)  v/o 42 24(a) indicates the business to which the revenues relate. gip = the global innovative pharmaceutical segment; v = the global vaccines business; o = the global oncology business; and gep = the global established pharmaceutical segment.(b) as compared to the three months ended march 31, 2013.(c) lyrica revenues from all of europe are included in gep. all other lyrica revenues are included in gip.(d) viagra revenues from the u.s. and canada are included in gip. all other viagra revenues are included in gep.(e) includes enbrel (gip, in the u.s. and canada through october 31, 2013), spiriva (gep), rebif (gip), aricept (gep) and eliquis (gip).(f) all other gip, all other gep and all other v/o are subsets of all other biopharmaceutical revenues.* calculation not meaningful.certain amounts and percentages may reflect rounding adjustments.50revenues––selected product descriptions•lyrica (gip/gep) is indicated in the u.s. for three neuropathic pain conditions, fibromyalgia and adjunctive therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures. in certain countries outside the u.s., indications include neuropathic pain (peripheral and central), fibromyalgia, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and generalized anxiety disorder. worldwide revenues for lyrica increased 8% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. in the u.s., revenues increased 17% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, driven by increased investment in effective direct-to-consumer advertising and despite continued competition from generic versions of competitive medicines. internationally, lyrica revenues increased 1% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, with the growth due to a focus on enhancing diagnosis and treatment rates of neuropathic back pain and expediting the identification and appropriate treatment of generalized anxiety disorder in the eu, and physician education regarding neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia in japan. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 4% in the first quarter 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. •prevnar family of products (v) consists of prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and prevnar/prevenar (7-valent), our pneumococcal conjugate vaccines for the prevention of various syndromes of pneumococcal disease. overall, worldwide revenues for the prevnar family of products remained the same in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. in the u.s., revenues for the prevnar family of products increased 5% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, mainly due to price increases and government purchasing patterns. internationally, revenues for the prevnar family of products decreased 4% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to foreign exchange and the timing of shipments in our international markets. on february 24, 2014, we announced the top-line results of the community-acquired pneumonia immunization trial in adults (capita), which was conducted in order to fulfill requirements in connection with the fda’s approval of the prevnar 13 adult indication under its accelerated approval program. this study of approximately 85,000 subjects evaluated the efficacy of prevnar 13 in adults age 65 and older. capita met its primary clinical objective, which was efficacy against a first episode of vaccine-type, community-acquired pneumonia (cap). it also met both of its secondary clinical objectives, which were efficacy against (i) a first episode of non-bacteremic/non-invasive, vaccine-type cap and (ii) a first episode of vaccine-type, invasive pneumococcal disease. we are in the process of sharing the capita data with u.s. and worldwide regulatory authorities and vaccine technical committees to help inform any decisions regarding potential prevnar 13 label and recommendation updates. we expect that the capita data will be an important component in any consideration of potential updated or new recommendations for adults and that other key factors, such as the current burden of pneumococcal disease in adults, also will be taken into consideration. at its regular meeting held on february 22, 2012, the cdc's advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) indicated that it will defer voting on a recommendation for the routine use of prevnar 13 in adults 50 years of age and older until the results of capita, as well as data on the impact of pediatric use of prevnar 13 on the disease burden and serotype distribution among adults, are available. the rate of uptake for the use of prevnar 13 in adults 50 years of age and older has been impacted by acip’s decision to defer voting on a recommendation for the routine use of prevnar 13 in that population. at its regular meeting held on june 20, 2012, acip voted to recommend the use of prevnar 13 for adults 19 years of age and older with immuno-compromising conditions such as hiv infections, cancer, advanced kidney disease and other immuno-compromising conditions. this recommendation is based on the disproportionate burden of invasive pneumococcal disease in this patient population. •enbrel (gip, outside of the u.s. and canada), for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis, a type of arthritis affecting the spine, recorded an increase in worldwide revenues, excluding the u.s. and canada, of 4% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. results were favorably impacted by continued market leadership in rheumatoid arthritis but unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange of 4%. 51the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement with amgen inc. (amgen), under which we co-promoted enbrel in the u.s. and canada and shared in the profits from enbrel sales in those countries, and which we included in alliance revenues through october 31, 2013, expired on that date and, subject to the terms of the agreement, we are entitled to a royalty stream for 36 months thereafter, which has been and is expected to continue to be significantly less than our share of enbrel profits from u.s. and canadian sales prior to the expiration. the royalties paid to us during the 36-month period are and will be included in other deductions––net rather than in revenues in our consolidated statements of income from november 1, 2013. following the end of the royalty period, we are not entitled to any further revenues from enbrel sales in the u.s. and canada. our exclusive rights to enbrel outside the u.s. and canada will not be affected by the expiration of the co-promotion agreement with amgen. •celebrex (gep), indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis worldwide and for the management of acute pain in adults in the u.s., japan and certain other markets, recorded a decrease in worldwide revenues of 4% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to share erosion in the u.s. and the developed markets in europe.in the u.s., revenues decreased 5% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily driven by retailer inventory reductions, continued share erosion and higher rebates in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. internationally, celebrex revenues decreased 3% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. strong operational performance in international markets was driven by growth in japan (strong performance in the low back pain and osteoarthritis indications), south korea (maintaining share in spite of competition), and in emerging markets, partially offset by lower revenues in the developed markets in europe in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 7% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. •lipitor (gep) is for the treatment of elevated ldl-cholesterol levels in the blood. lipitor has lost exclusivity and faces generic competition in all major markets. branded lipitor recorded worldwide revenues of $457 million, or a decrease of 27%, in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, due to:◦the impact of loss of exclusivity; ◦the continuing impact of an intensely competitive lipid-lowering market with competition from generics and branded products worldwide; and ◦the increased payer pressure worldwide, including the need for flexible rebate policies. geographically,◦in the u.s., revenues decreased 71% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013; and ◦in our international markets, revenues decreased 11% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 4% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013.•viagra (gep/gip) is indicated for the treatment for erectile dysfunction. viagra worldwide revenues decreased 19% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to a decrease in international revenues. international revenues decreased 38% in the first quarter, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to the entry of generics in developed europe. in emerging markets, the decrease was primarily due to the impact of both herbal and generic competition. loss of exclusivity for viagra in major european markets occurred in late-june 2013. revenues in the u.s. decreased 2% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013.•zyvox (gep) is the world’s best-selling branded agent among those used to treat serious gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus-aureus. zyvox worldwide revenues decreased 6% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. the decrease in the first quarter of 2014 was primarily due to a prolonged supply interruption of zyvox iv in china that is expected to continue through 2014, and also reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%.•norvasc (gep) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. norvasc worldwide revenues decreased 8% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, and reflects, among other factors, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 5%.•sutent (o) is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mrcc); gastrointestinal stromal tumors after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate; and advanced 52pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. sutent worldwide revenues decreased 11% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, as a result of competitive pressure, timing of sales in the u.s. and emerging markets, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%, partially offset by price increases in the u.s. and increased market share in japan and south korea.•our premarin family of products (gep) helps women address moderate-to-severe menopausal symptoms. premarin worldwide revenues increased 2% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. revenues in the u.s. were favorably impacted by the launch of a new women's health-focused sales force, increased marketing support, a cross-franchise price increase and growth in premarin vaginal cream prescription volume, and unfavorably impacted by prescription volume declines for premarin family oral brands.•benefix and refacto af/xyntha (gip) are hemophilia products using state-of-the-art manufacturing that assist patients with their lifelong bleeding disorders. benefix recorded an increase in worldwide revenues of 6% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to greater consumption and price increases in the u.s., as well as the launch of the 3000 international unit vial in europe and increased revenues in japan due to continued product adoption. refacto af/xyntha recorded a 4% increase in worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, as a result of continued competitive patient conversions and increased hospital utilization in the u.s. and the successful completion of dual chamber syringe ("fusengo") across developed eu.•pristiq (gep) is approved for the treatment of major depressive disorder in the u.s. and in various other countries. pristiq has also been approved for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms (vms) associated with menopause in thailand, mexico, the philippines and ecuador. pristiq recorded an increase in worldwide revenues of 4% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to prescription growth in the emerging markets, canada and australia, as well as a price increase in the u.s.•chantix/champix (gip) is an aid to smoking-cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age and older. worldwide revenues decreased 11% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. revenues in the u.s. were relatively flat in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, and reflected competition from over-the-counter (otc) competitors, mainly nicorette and e-cigarettes. international revenues decreased 23% in the first quarter, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to overall market decline across several key markets as a result of a challenging macro-economic environment, as well as the lingering impact from previous negative media exposure and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 5%.•inlyta (o), for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (rcc) after failure of a prior systemic treatment, is now approved in 63 countries, including the u.s., eu, switzerland, japan, canada, australia, south korea and some emerging markets, including russia, mexico and turkey (exact indications vary by region). inlyta recorded worldwide revenues of $88 million in the first quarter of 2014, an increase of 40%, compared to the same period in 2013, due to recent launches and additional share uptake. international revenues increased 71% in the first quarter, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to strong growth in developed markets in europe, where 85% of oncologists are prescribing inlyta. foreign exchange had a 12% unfavorable impact on international revenues.•xalkori (o), for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) that is anaplastic lymphoma kinase (alk)-positive, is now approved in more than 70 countries, including the u.s., eu (conditional), japan, south korea, canada, australia and switzerland, as well as in many emerging markets, including china, russia, mexico, india and turkey. xalkori recorded worldwide revenues of $88 million in the first quarter of 2014, an increase of 66%, compared to the same period in 2013.•xeljanz (gip) was approved in the u.s. in november 2012 and in various other countries in 2013 for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis. it has experienced consistent month-to-month growth in the u.s., where total prescription volume grew 16% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the last quarter in 2013. xeljanz recorded worldwide revenues of $52 million in the first quarter of 2014, compared to $11 million in the same period in 2013, virtually all in the u.s. xeljanz also has been approved in colombia, uruguay, chile, taiwan, bolivia, guatemala, philippines, and ecuador in the first quarter of 2014. •alliance revenues (gep/gip) worldwide decreased 71% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, mainly due to:◦the near-term expiration of the co-promotion collaboration for spiriva (gep) in japan, the u.s. (where the collaboration expired in april 2014), and certain european countries combined with the expiration of the collaboration in australia, canada and south korea, which resulted in declines of $181 million in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, in pfizer's share of spiriva's revenues;53◦the termination of the co-promotion agreement for aricept (gep) in japan in december 2012, which resulted in a decrease in pfizer's share of aricept revenues of $33 million in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013; and◦the expiration of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement for enbrel in the u.s. and canada in october 2013, which resulted in a decrease of $375 million in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. (while alliance revenues declined $375 million, we received $137 million in royalty income from enbrel in the u.s. and canada in the first quarter of 2014, which is recorded in other deductions—net in the condensed consolidated statements on income for the three months ended march 30, 2014. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—net.)see the “our operating environment—intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights" section of our 2013 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our 2013 annual report on form 10-k, for information regarding the expiration of various contract rights relating to aricept, spiriva, enbrel and rebif.on april 29, 2014, the 10-year alliance between boehringer ingelheim and pfizer for the promotion and marketing of spiriva in the u.s. came to an end. boehringer ingelheim now exclusively markets and supplies spiriva in the u.s.eliquis (apixaban) (gip) is being jointly developed and commercialized by pfizer and bristol-myers squibb (bms). in 2012, eliquis (apixaban) was approved to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation in the 27 countries of the eu, plus iceland and norway, canada, japan and the u.s. to date, we have launched that indication for eliquis in the u.s., u.k., germany, denmark, japan, netherlands and sweden. the two companies share commercialization expenses and profit/losses equally on a global basis. while we are the third entrant in this market, we believe we have a differentiated product profile and continue to invest in medical education, peer-to-peer programs to assist physicians in understanding the data, and direct-to consumer advertising in the u.s.•embeda (gip)—in november 2013, we announced that the fda had approved a prior approval supplement for an update to the embeda manufacturing process. this update addressed the pre-specified stability requirement that led to the voluntary recall of embeda from the market in march 2011. we anticipate returning embeda to the market by the end of 2014.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.product developmentswe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to transform our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include: delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules—immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. other areas of focus include rare diseases and biosimilars. our development pipeline, which is updated quarterly, can be found at www.pfizer.com/pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication, phase of development and, for late-stage programs, mechanism of action. the information currently in our development pipeline is as of may 8, 2014.among our new drug candidates in late-stage development is palbociclib (pd-0332991), an oral and selective reversible inhibitor of the cdk 4 and 6 kinases under investigation for the treatment of patients with estrogen receptor-positive (er+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2- negative (her2-) advanced breast cancer, recurrent advanced breast cancer and high-risk early breast cancer. on february 3, 2014, we announced that the randomized phase 2 trial of palbociclib achieved its primary endpoint by demonstrating a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival for the combination of palbociclib and letrozole compared with letrozole alone in post-menopausal women with er+, her2- locally advanced or newly diagnosed metastatic breast cancer. adverse events observed for the palbociclib arm were consistent with the known adverse event profile for this combination.54the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedeliquis (apixaban)(a)prevention of deep vein thrombosis (dvt), which may lead to pulmonary embolism (pe), in adult patients who have undergone hip or knee replacement surgerymarch 2014duavee (conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifene)(b)treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis in women with a uterusoctober 2013(a) this indication for eliquis (apixaban) was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms.(b) the fda approved the 0.45 mg/20 mg dose of duavee for these indications. we received a "complete response" letter from the fda with regard to the 0.625 mg/20 mg dose for these indications, and for an indication for the treatment of vulvar and vaginal atrophy.pending u.s. new drug applications (nda) and supplemental filingsproductindicationdate filed*eliquis (apixaban)(a)treatment of dvt and pe, and for the reduction in the risk of recurrent dvt and pedecember 2013tafamidis meglumine(b)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (ttr-fap)february 2012genotropin mark vii multidose disposable device (somatropin rdna origin)(c)replacement of human growth hormone deficiencydecember 2009celebrex (celecoxib)(d)chronic painoctober 2009remoxy (oxycodone hydrochloride)(e)management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequateaugust 2008viviant (bazedoxifene)(f)osteoporosis treatment and preventionaugust 2006*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) this indication for eliquis (apixaban) was developed in collaboration with bms.(b) in may 2012, the fda's peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. we continue to work with the fda to define a path forward.(c) after receiving a “complete response” letter from the fda for the genotropin mark vii multidose disposable device submission, we submitted our response in august 2010. in april 2011, we received a second “complete response” letter from the fda, and we submitted our response in july 2013. in february 2014, we received a third "complete response" letter from the fda, and we are working with the fda to determine next steps.(d) in june 2010, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda for the celebrex chronic pain supplemental nda. the supplemental nda remains pending while we await the completion of the precision trial, anticipated in 2015, which will inform our next steps. the precision trial is designed to assess the relative long-term cardiovascular safety of celebrex compared to prescription doses of ibuprofen and naproxen in the treatment of arthritis pain.(e) in 2005, king entered into an agreement with pain therapeutics, inc. (pt) to develop and commercialize remoxy. in august 2008, the fda accepted the nda for remoxy that had been submitted by king and pt. in december 2008, the fda issued a “complete response” letter. in march 2009, king exercised its right under the agreement with pt to assume sole control and responsibility for the development of remoxy. in december 2010, king resubmitted the nda for remoxy with the fda. in june 2011, we and pt announced that a “complete response” letter had been received from the fda with regard to the resubmission of the nda. having achieved technical milestones related to manufacturing and following guidance received from the fda earlier in 2013, we announced in october 2013 that we will proceed with the additional clinical studies and other actions required to address the "complete response" letter received in june 2011. these new clinical studies will include, in part, a pivotal bioequivalence study with the modified remoxy formulation to bridge to the clinical data related to the original remoxy formulation, and an abuse-potential study with the modified formulation. as previously disclosed, the "complete response" submission is not expected to occur prior to mid-2015.(f) two “approvable” letters were received by wyeth in april and december 2007 from the fda for viviant (bazedoxifene), for the prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis, that set forth the additional requirements for approval. in may 2008, wyeth received an “approvable” letter from the fda for the treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis. the fda is seeking additional data, and we have been systematically working through these requirements and seeking to address the fda's concerns. in february 2008, the fda advised wyeth that it expects to convene an advisory committee to review the pending ndas for both the treatment and prevention indications after we 55submit our response to the “approvable” letters. in view of the recent approval of duavee by the fda, we are reassessing the next steps regarding our ndas for viviant. in april 2009, wyeth received approval in the eu for conbriza (the eu trade name for viviant) for the treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis in women at increased risk of fracture. regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*bosulif (bosutinib)application filed in japan for treatment of previously treated chronic myelogenous leukemia—december 2013eliquis (apixaban)(a)application filed in the eu for treatment of dvt and pe, and for the reduction in the risk of recurrent dvt and pe—november 2013vyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)approval in japan as a treatment to delay the peripheral neurological impairment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (ttr-fap)september 2013—prevenar 13 adultapplication filed in japan for prevention of pneumococcal disease caused by streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6a, 6b, 7f, 9v, 14, 18c, 19a, 19f and 23f) in adults 65 years of age and older—july 2013prevenar 13 infantapproval in japan for prevention of invasive disease caused by streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6a, 6b, 7f, 9v, 14, 18c, 19a, 19f and 23f) in infants and young childrenjune 2013__conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifeneapplication filed in the eu for treatment of symptoms associated with menopause and osteoporosis—july 2012* for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the european medicines agency (ema) validated our submissions.(a)this indication for eliquis (apixaban) was developed in collaboration with bms.late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductindicationinlyta (axitinib)oral and selective inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) receptor 1, 2 & 3 for the adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals grouplyrica (pregabalin)peripheral neuropathic pain; cr (once-a-day) dosingsutent (sunitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinomatofacitiniba jak kinase inhibitor for the treatment of psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and psoriatic arthritisvyndagael (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathyxalkori (crizotinib)an oral alk and c-met inhibitor for the first-line treatment of alk-positive non-small cell lung cancer56new drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateindicationalo-02a mu-type opioid receptor agonist for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequatebococizumab (rn316) (pf-04950615)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pcsk9 for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and prevention of cardiovascular eventsdacomitiniba pan-her tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with egfr activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupertugliflozin (pf-04971729)an oral sglt2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merck & co., inc.inotuzumab ozogamicinan antibody drug conjugate, consisting of an anti-cd22 monotherapy antibody linked to a cytotoxic agent, calicheamycin, for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemiamnb rlp2086(a) (pf-05212366)a prophylactic vaccine for prevention of neisseria meningitidis serogroup b invasive disease in adolescents and young adults (ages 10-25)palbociclib (pd-0332991)(b)an oral and selective reversible inhibitor of the cdk 4 and 6 kinases for the first-line treatment of patients with estrogen receptor-positive (er+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (her2-) advanced breast cancer, as well as for the treatment of recurrent advanced breast cancer and, in collaboration with the german breast group, high-risk early breast cancerpf-05280014a potential biosimilar to trastuzumab. trastuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds and inhibits her2 for the treatment of her2-positive breast cancer and gastric cancertanezumab(c)an anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain (on clinical hold)(a) in march 2014, we announced that the fda granted breakthrough therapy designation to mnb rlp2086 and that we intend to submit a biologics license application to the fda for this vaccine candidate by mid-2014.(b) on february 3, 2014, we announced that the randomized phase 2 trial of palbociclib achieved its primary endpoint by demonstrating a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival for the combination of palbociclib and letrozole compared with letrozole alone in post-menopausal women with er+, her2- locally advanced or newly diagnosed metastatic breast cancer. adverse events observed for the palbociclib arm were consistent with the known adverse event profile for this combination.(c) the tanezumab program is under a partial clinical hold by the fda pending our submission of additional nonclinical data. we anticipate submitting that data to the fda during the first half of 2015. subject to the removal of the partial clinical hold, we are planning to continue development of tanezumab for the treatment of osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain. in october 2013, we entered into a collaboration agreement with eli lilly and company to jointly develop and globally commercialize tanezumab for those indications.additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.costs and expensescost of sales  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 % changecost of sales $2,045 $2,263 (10)as a percentage of revenues 18.0% 18.2%  cost of sales decreased 10% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, which reflects, among other things, cost-reduction initiatives, lower revenues, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 5%.selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,040 $3,217 (6)as a percentage of revenues 26.8% 25.9%  57si&a expenses decreased 6% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to:•lower expenses for field force and administration, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, partly in response to product losses of exclusivity;•a reduction of $84 million related to a true-up of the 2013 fee payable to the federal government under the u.s. healthcare legislation based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs; and•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%,partially offset by:•increased investments in support of several new product launches.research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 % changeresearch and development expenses $1,623 $1,710 (5)as a percentage of revenues 14.3% 13.8%  r&d expenses decreased 5% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to lower charges related to implementing our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.our r&d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations––research units, within our worldwide research and development organization, are generally responsible for research assets (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept); business units are generally responsible for development assets (assets that have achieved proof-of-concept); and science-based and other platform-services organizations.we take a holistic approach to our r&d operations and manage the operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. specifically, a single committee, co-chaired by members of our r&d and commercial organizations, is accountable for aligning resources among all of our r&d projects and for seeking to ensure that our company is focusing its r&d resources in the areas where we believe that we can be most successful and maximize our return on investment. we believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility.our research units are organized in a variety of ways (by therapeutic area or combinations of therapeutic areas, by discipline, by location, etc.) to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources, within a research unit, between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus.our platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&d spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, and are organized into science-based functions such as pharmaceutical sciences, chemistry, drug safety, and development operations, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. as a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs.generally, we do not disaggregate total r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our r&d operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending.58restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 %changecosts associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(a) $164 $305 (46)(a) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses and/or selling, informational and administrative expenses, as appropriate.we can incur significant costs in connection with acquiring, integrating and restructuring businesses and in connection with our global cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. for example:•in connection with acquisition activity, we typically incur costs associated with executing the transactions, integrating the acquired operations (which may include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes), and restructuring the combined company (which may include charges related to employees, assets and activities that will not continue in the combined company); and•in connection with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, we typically incur costs and charges associated with site closings and other facility rationalization and optimization actions, workforce reductions and the expansion of shared services, including the development of global systems.costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives decreased 46% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, due to lower costs incurred in all categories: restructuring charges (down $55 million), integration costs (down $18 million), additional depreciation––asset restructuring (down $61 million) and lower implementation costs (down $7 million). the overall lower costs primarily reflect the fact that we had substantially completed many of the initiatives launched in prior periods.in early 2014, we announced that we would be incurring costs in 2014-2016 related to new programs: our new global commercial structure reorganization and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. see below for a description of our current programs, expected total costs and expected cost savings. for additional information about the charges, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.all of our businesses and functions may be impacted by these actions, including sales and marketing, manufacturing and r&d, as well as groups such as information technology, shared services and corporate operations. however, in 2014-2016, our primary activities are expected to be associated with our manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization activities, and commercial property rationalization and consolidation.programs, expected total costs and expected cost savingsin 2014, we have the following initiatives underway:•manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization, where execution timelines are necessarily long. our plant network strategy is expected to result in the exit of nine sites over the next several years. in connection with these activities, during 2014-2016, we expect to incur costs of approximately $450 million associated with prior acquisition activity and costs of approximately $1.5 billion associated with new non-acquisition-related cost-reduction initiatives.•new global commercial structure reorganization, which primarily includes the streamlining of certain functions, the realignment of regional locations and colleagues to support the businesses, as well as implementing the necessary system changes to support future reporting requirements. in connection with this reorganization, during 2014-2016, we expect to incur costs of approximately $350 million.•other new cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, primarily related to commercial property rationalization and consolidation. in connection with these cost-reduction activities, during 2014-2016, we expect to incur costs of approximately $900 million.the costs expected to be incurred during 2014-2016, of approximately $3.2 billion in total, include restructuring charges, integration costs, implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring. of this amount, we expect that about a quarter of the charges will be non-cash.59the expected ongoing annual cost savings associated with the programs described above, in the aggregate, are estimated to be approximately $2.9 billion by the end of 2016.the expected costs and costs savings in 2014 associated with these activities are reflected in our financial guidance for 2014. see also the “our financial guidance for 2014” section of this md&a.in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.current-period key activitiesin the first quarter of 2014, we incurred approximately $164 million in cost-reduction and acquisition-related costs (excluding transaction costs) in connection with the aforementioned programs, primarily associated with our manufacturing and sales operations. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.other deductions—net  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 % changeother deductions––net $623 $145 ** calculation not meaningful.other deductions––net changed unfavorably by $478 million in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily due to:•higher legal charges (up $777 million), primarily due to neurontin- and effexor-related matters (for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other deductions—net); and•the non-recurrence of a gain of $490 million recorded in the first quarter of 2013 associated with the transfer of certain product rights to our 49%-owned equity-method investment in china (for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2b. divestiture and equity-method investments: equity-method investments),partially offset by:•lower asset impairments and related charges (down $283 million) (for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—net);•higher royalty-related income (up by $185 million) primarily due to royalties earned on sales of enbrel in the u.s. and canada after october 31, 2013 (for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other deductions—net); and•higher net gains on asset disposals (up by $155 million), primarily due to gains on sales of product rights and gains on sales of investments in equity securities (for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other deductions—net).certain asset impairment chargeswhen necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of these assets. for additional information, see the “significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates—asset impairment reviews” section of our 2013 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013.see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—net.60provision for taxes on income  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 % changeprovision for taxes on income $582 $1,109 (48)effective tax rate 20.4% 29.8%  our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 20.4% for the first quarter of 2014, compared to 29.8% for the first quarter of 2013. the lower effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2014 in comparison with the same period in 2013 was primarily due to the favorable impact of the resolution in the first quarter of 2014 of certain tax positions, pertaining to prior years, primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and from the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, the non-recurrence of the unfavorable tax impact associated with the non-deductibility of the goodwill derecognized and the jurisdictional mix of the other intangible assets divested as part of the transfer of certain product rights to our 49%-owned equity-method investment, as well as the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by the expiration of the u.s. research and development (r&d) tax credit on december 31, 2013. for additional information about the transfer of certain product rights, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2b. divestiture and equity-method investments: equity-method investments.discontinued operationsfor additional information about our discontinued operations, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. divestiture and equity-method investments: divestiture.the following table provides the components of discontinued operations—net of tax:  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013revenues $— $1,089pre-tax income from discontinued operations 5 200provision for taxes on income(a) — 51income from discontinued operations––net of tax 5 149pre-tax gain on disposal of discontinued operations 64 —benefit for taxes on income (4) —gain on disposal of discontinued operations––net of tax(b) 68 —discontinued operations––net of tax $73 $149(a) includes a deferred tax expense of $7 million for the three months ended march 31, 2013.(b) for the three months ended march 30, 2014, represents post-close adjustments.adjusted incomegeneral description of adjusted income measuresadjusted incomeadjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management, and we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, consumer healthcare (over-the-counter) products, and vaccines––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure is not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for u.s. gaap net income. 61the adjusted income measure is an important internal measurement for pfizer. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. the following are examples of how the adjusted income measure is utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income basis; and•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using this adjusted income measure. adjusted income is the performance metric utilized in the determination of bonuses under the pfizer inc. executive annual incentive plan that is designed to limit the bonuses payable to the executive leadership team (elt) for purposes of internal revenue code section 162(m). subject to the section 162(m) limitation, the bonuses are funded from a pool based on the performance measured by three financial metrics, including adjusted diluted earnings per share, which is derived from adjusted income. this metric accounts for 40% of the bonus pool. the pool applies to the bonus plans for virtually all bonus-eligible, non-sales-force employees worldwide, including the elt members and other members of senior management.despite the importance of this measure to management in goal setting and performance measurement, adjusted income is a non-gaap financial measure that has no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, has limits in its usefulness to investors. because of its non-standardized definition, adjusted income (unlike u.s. gaap net income) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income is presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as an internal measure of performance, the adjusted income measure has limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to this metric. a limitation of the adjusted income measure is that it provides a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and does not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a group of pharmaceutical industry peers, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans. adjusted income components“adjusted income” components are defined as the corresponding reported u.s. gaap components, excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. adjusted revenues, adjusted cost of sales, adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses, adjusted research and development expenses, adjusted amortization of intangible assets and adjusted other (income)/deductions––net are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and therefore components of, the overall adjusted income measure. as described above. management uses adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company. we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this measure. see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the first quarter of 2014 and 2013 below. the adjusted income component measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for the u.s. gaap component measures.purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with pharmacia (acquired in 2003), wyeth (acquired in 2009) and king (acquired in 2011), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets, amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.certain of the purchase accounting adjustments can occur through 20 or more years, but this presentation provides an alternative view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess business performance. we believe the elimination of amortization attributable to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative view of 62our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to internally developed intangible assets for which research and development costs previously have been expensed.however, a completely accurate comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets cannot be achieved through adjusted income. this component of adjusted income is derived solely from the impacts of the items listed in the first paragraph of this section. we have not factored in the impacts of any other differences in experience that might have occurred if we had discovered and developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach does not intend to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those circumstances. for example, our research and development costs in total, and in the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to manufacture may have been different. in addition, our marketing efforts may have been received differently by our customers. as such, in total, there can be no assurance that our adjusted income amounts would have been the same as presented had we discovered and developed the acquired intangible assets.acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.we believe that viewing income prior to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional perspective because the significant costs incurred in connection with a business combination result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or employees––a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. for this reason, we believe that the costs incurred to convert disparate systems, to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently from those costs incurred in other, more normal, business contexts.the integration and restructuring costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with the more significant impacts ending within three years of the transaction. because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can be lengthy. for example, due to the highly regulated nature of the pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and testing and must be approved by the fda and/or other global regulatory authorities.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations such as the gains on the full disposition of our former animal health business (zoetis) in june 2013, the sale of our former nutrition business in november 2012 and the sale of our former capsugel business in august 2011. we believe that this presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we review our businesses and product lines for strategic fit with our operations, we do not build or run our businesses with the intent to sell them. restatements due to discontinued operations do not impact compensation or change the adjusted income measure for the compensation in respect of the restated periods, but are presented for consistency across all periods.63certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature. unusual, in this context, may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs for a program that is specific in nature with a defined term, such as those related to our new global commercial structure reorganization and our other non-acquisition-related cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; amounts associated with transitional service, manufacturing and supply agreements in support of discontinued operations after sale; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals on legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.reconciliation of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  quarter ended march 30, 2014in millions, except for common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $11,353 $— $— $— $(57) $11,296cost of sales 2,045 69 (6) — (122) 1,986selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,040 — — — (20) 3,020research and development expenses 1,623 — — — (11) 1,612amortization of intangible assets 1,117 (1,076) — — — 41restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 58 — (24) — (34) —other (income)/deductions––net 623 (1) — — (886) (264)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 2,847 1,008 30 — 1,016 4,901provision for taxes on income(b) 582 288 9 — 348 1,227income from continuing operations 2,265 720 21 — 668 3,674discontinued operations––net of tax 73 — — (73) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,329 720 21 (73) 668 3,665earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.36 0.11 — (0.01) 0.10 0.57            64  quarter ended march 31, 2013in millions, except for common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $12,410 $— $— $— $— $12,410cost of sales 2,263 5 (33) — (6) 2,229selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,217 5 (2) — (42) 3,178research and development expenses 1,710 1 — — (93) 1,618amortization of intangible assets 1,219 (1,180) — — — 39restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 131 — (55) — (76) —other (income)/deductions––net 145 (50) — — 129 224income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,725 1,219 90 — 88 5,122provision for taxes on income(b) 1,109 334 26 — (96) 1,373income from continuing operations 2,616 885 64 — 184 3,749discontinued operations––net of tax 149 — — (149) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 15 — — (6) — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,750 885 64 (143) 184 3,740earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.38 0.12 0.01 (0.02) 0.03 0.51            (a) for details of adjustments, see "details of income statement items excluded from adjusted income" below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 25.0% in the first quarter of 2014, compared with 26.8% in the first quarter of 2013. this decline was primarily due to the favorable impact of the resolution in the first quarter of 2014 of certain tax positions, pertaining to prior years, primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and from the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, partially offset by the expiration of the u.s. r&d tax credit on december 31, 2013.certain amounts may reflect rounding adjustments.eps amounts may not add due to rounding.65details of income statement items excluded from adjusted incomeadjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items:  three months ended(millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013purchase accounting adjustments    amortization, depreciation and other(a) $1,077 $1,224cost of sales (69) (5)total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 1,008 1,219income taxes(b) (288) (334)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 720 885acquisition-related costs    restructuring charges(c) 6 19integration costs(c) 18 36additional depreciation––asset restructuring(d) 6 35total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 30 90income taxes(b) (9) (26)total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 21 64discontinued operations    discontinued operations––net of tax(e) (73) (149)discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to noncontrolling interests — 6total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. (73) (143)certain significant items    restructuring charges(f) 34 76implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(g) 100 139gain associated with the transfer of certain product rights(h) — (490)certain legal matters, net(h) 694 (87)certain asset impairments and related charges(h) 114 394costs associated with the zoetis ipo(i) — 18income associated with the transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis(j) (8) —other(k) 82 38total certain significant items––pre-tax 1,016 88income taxes(l) (348) 96total certain significant items––net of tax 668 184total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $1,336 $990(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. (c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—    note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). (d) represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended march 30, 2014, included in cost of sales ($6 million). for the three months ended march 31, 2013, included in cost of sales ($33 million) and selling, informational and administrative expenses ($2 million).(e) included in discontinued operations––net of tax. for the three months ended march 30, 2014, represents post-close adjustments. for the three months ended march 31, 2013, virtually all relates to our former animal health business (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note2a. divestiture and equity-method investments: divestiture).(f) represents restructuring charges incurred for our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). (g) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended march 30, 2014, included in cost of sales ($74 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($15 million) and 66research and development expenses ($11 million). for the three months ended march 31, 2013, included in cost of sales ($6 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($40 million) and research and development expenses ($93 million).(h) included in other deductions—net (see the "other deductions—net" section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—net).(i) costs incurred in connection with the initial public offering of an approximate 19.8% ownership interest in zoetis. includes expenditures for banking, legal, accounting and similar services. for the three months ended march 31, 2013 included in other deductions—net (see the "other deductions—net" section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—net).(j) primarily included in revenues ($57 million) and cost of sales ($50 million) for the three months ended march 30, 2014.(k) primarily included in other deductions—net.(l) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts and is calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the three months ended march 31, 2013 was unfavorably impacted by the non-deductibility of the goodwill derecognized and the jurisdictional mix of the other intangible assets divested as part of the transfer of certain product rights to pfizer's 49%-owned equity-method investment in china.analysis of operating segment informationthe following table and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our three operating segments—the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip); the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment (voc); and the global established pharmaceutical segment (gep). for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information.the following table provides revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  gip(a) voc(a) gep(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reported(millions of dollars)              first quarter of 2014              revenues $3,076 $2,174 $5,990 $56 $11,296 $57 $11,353cost of sales 415 409 1,025 137 1,986 59 2,045selling, informational and administrative expenses 765 531 837 887 3,020 20 3,040research and development expenses 394 184 138 896 1,612 11 1,623amortization of intangible assets 11 4 25 1 41 1,076 1,117restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — 58 58other (income)/deductions––net (276) (11) (84) 107 (264) 887 623income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $1,767 $1,057 $4,049 $(1,972) $4,901 $(2,054) $2,847               first quarter of 2013(e)              revenues $3,306 $2,190 $6,861 $53 $12,410 $— $12,410cost of sales 443 430 1,143 213 2,229 34 2,263selling, informational and administrative expenses 699 534 1,080 865 3,178 39 3,217research and development expenses 307 225 181 905 1,618 92 1,710amortization of intangible assets 13 3 21 2 39 1,180 1,219restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — 1 — (1) — 131 131other (income)/deductions––net (51) 2 (16) 289 224 (79) 145income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $1,895 995 $4,452 $(2,220) $5,122 $(1,397) $3,725(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. 67(b) other comprises the revenues and costs included in our adjusted income components(c) that are managed outside of our three operating segments and includes the following:  quarter ended march 30, 2014  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii) medical(iii) corporate(iv) other unallocated(v) totalrevenues $56 $— $— $— $— $56cost of sales 36 — — 11 90 137selling, informational and  administrative expenses 3 — 24 851 9 887research and development expenses 1 663 6 220 6 896amortization of intangible assets 1 — — — — 1restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net — (11) — 118 — 107income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $15 $(652) $(30) $(1,200) $(105) $(1,972)  quarter ended march 31, 2013  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii) medical(iii) corporate(iv) other unallocated(v) totalrevenues $53 $— $— $— $— $53cost of sales 33 — — 39 141 213selling, informational and  administrative expenses 3 — 25 829 8 865research and development expenses — 650 4 240 11 905amortization of intangible assets — — — 1 1 2restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — (1) (1)other (income)/deductions––net — (2) — 225 66 289income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $17 $(648) $(29) $(1,334) $(226) $(2,220)(i) pcs—the revenues and costs of pfizer centresource (pcs), our contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales operation.(ii) wrd—the research and development expenses managed by our worldwide research and development organization (wrd), which is generally responsible for research projects until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the appropriate operating segment for possible clinical and commercial development. this organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities.(iii) medical—the costs associated with our pfizer medical organization (medical), which is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, partnerships with global public health and medical associations, regulatory inspection readiness reviews, internal audits of pfizer-sponsored clinical trials and internal regulatory compliance processes.(iv) corporate—the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance, and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments.(v) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations not directly attributable to an operating segment.68for information purposes only, for the three months ended march 30, 2014, we estimate that other costs, in the aggregate and as described above, but excluding (i) the costs associated with pcs; (ii) net interest expense included in corporate (approximately $245 million in other (income)/deductions––net); and (iii) net gains on investments not attributable to an operating segment and included in corporate (approximately $119 million in other (income)/deductions––net), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows:(percentages) gip voc gepwrd/medical costs      selling, informational and administrative expenses 36% - 38% 21% - 23% 40% - 42%research and development expenses 51% - 55% 30% - 33% 14% - 16%other (income)/deductions––net * * *total wrd/medical costs 50% - 54% 31% - 34% 15% - 17%       corporate/other unallocated costs      cost of sales 9% - 11% 19% - 21% 67% - 69%selling, informational and administrative expenses 26% - 28% 20% - 22% 50% - 54%research and development expenses 49% - 53% 34% - 37% 13% - 15%other (income)/deductions––net * * *total corporate/other unallocated costs 29% - 32% 22% - 25% 44% - 47%       total wrd/medical and corporate/other unallocated costs      cost of sales 9% - 11% 19% - 21% 67% - 69%selling, informational and administrative expenses 27% - 29% 20% - 22% 49% - 53%research and development expenses 50% - 54% 31% - 34% 14% - 16%other (income)/deductions––net * * *total wrd/medical/corporate/other unallocated costs 37% - 40% 25% - 28% 33% - 36%* amounts not material. the percentages provided in the table above do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. •wrd/medical––the information provided in the table above for wrd and medical was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the research and development projects associated with each operating segment. •corporate/other unallocated––the information provided in the table above for corporate and other unallocated was virtually all derived using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from research and development and manufacturing costs. management believes that the allocations of corporate and other unallocated costs are reasonable.(c) see the "adjusted income" section of this md&a for a definition of these “adjusted income” components. (d) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the "adjusted income" section of this md&a.(e) as our operations were not managed under the new structure until the beginning of the first quarter of 2014, certain costs and expenses could not be directly attributed to one of the new operating segments. as a result, our operating segment results for the first quarter of 2013 include allocations. the amounts subject to allocation methods in the first quarter of 2013 were approximately $500 million of si&a expenses and approximately $260 million of r&d expenses.•the si&a expenses were allocated using proportional allocation methods based on associated selling costs, revenues or product-specific costs, as applicable.•the r&d expenses were allocated based on product-specific r&d costs or revenue metrics, as applicable.management believes that the allocations are reasonable.69global innovative pharmaceutical operating segment•revenues decreased 7% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, which includes a decrease in operational revenues of 4%, primarily due to:◦the expiration of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement for enbrel in the u.s. and canada on october 31, 2013; for a 36-month period thereafter, we are entitled to royalty payments that have been and are expected to continue to be significantly less than the share of enbrel profits prior to the expiration of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement, and those royalty payments are and will be included in other (income)/deductions––net rather than in revenues (approximately $375 million); and◦the loss of exclusivity for lyrica in canada in february 2013 and a decrease in revenues of champix internationally and of genotropin, primarily in the u.s. (a combined decline of approximately $71 million), partially offset by:◦strong operational growth from lyrica, primarily in the u.s. and japan, and enbrel outside the u.s. and canada, as well as the performance of recently launched products, eliquis and xeljanz, primarily in the u.s. (a combined increase of approximately $276 million).the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% in the first quarter of 2014 also contributed to the decrease in gip revenues. total gip revenues from emerging markets were $357 million in the first quarter of 2014.•selling, informational and administrative expenses increased 9% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, reflecting increased investment in recently launched brands as well as certain other in-line products, partially offset by the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives. •research and development expenses increased 28% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, reflecting costs associated with recently initiated phase 3 programs for certain new drug candidates as well as for studies of certain products in potential new indications.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily reflects an increase in royalty-related income, primarily due to royalties earned on sales of enbrel in the u.s. and canada after october 31, 2013. as noted above, on that date, the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement for enbrel in the u.s. and canada expired, and we became entitled to royalties for a 36-month period.global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare operating segment•revenues decreased 1% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, which includes an increase in operational revenues of 1%.◦global vaccines revenues of $925 million were relatively flat in the first quarter of 2014, compared to $923 million in the same period in 2013, reflecting an increase in operational revenues of 2%, due to the performance of prevnar 13 in the u.s., primarily reflecting government purchasing patterns, partially offset by lower demand due to adverse weather conditions in the first quarter of 2014. sales of the prevenar family were flat internationally on an operational basis, which primarily reflects the timing of purchases by various governments in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2% on vaccines revenues in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the first quarter of 2013. total vaccines revenues from emerging markets were $184 million in the first quarter of 2014.◦global oncology revenues of $488 million increased 7% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to $456 million in the same period in 2013, reflecting an increase in operational revenues of 10%, due to the recent launches of new products, most notably xalkori and inlyta globally, partially offset by the decline in sutent revenues in the u.s. and certain emerging markets primarily due to the timing of purchases. the operational increase in global oncology revenues was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the first quarter of 2013. total oncology revenues from emerging markets were $75 million in the first quarter of 2014.◦consumer healthcare revenues of $761 million declined 6% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to $811 million in the same period in 2013, reflecting a decrease in operational revenues of 3%, due to a decrease in revenues for respiratory products in the u.s. and canada due to a less severe cold and flu incidence, and for pain management products in the u.s., primarily due to increased competition resulting from the return to the market of certain competing analgesic brands. these declines were partially offset by operational growth in certain emerging markets. the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% in the first quarter of 2014 also contributed to the decrease in consumer healthcare revenues. total consumer healthcare revenues from emerging markets were $222 million in the first quarter of 2014.•research and development expenses decreased 18% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, primarily reflecting the completion of certain phase 3 clinical trials.70global established pharmaceutical operating segment•revenues decreased 13% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, including a decrease in operational revenues of 10%, primarily due to:◦the loss of exclusivity and subsequent launch of multi-source generic competition for detrol la in the u.s. in january 2014 and for viagra in most major european markets in june 2013 (aggregate decline of approximately $170 million);◦a decline in branded lipitor revenues in the u.s. and most other developed markets as a result of continued generic competition (approximately $158 million); ◦a decline in aricept revenues primarily due to the termination of the co-promotion agreement in japan in december 2012 (approximately $33 million); and◦the near-term expiration of the co-promotion collaboration for spiriva in japan, the u.s. (where the collaboration expired in april 2014) and certain european countries, which, per the terms of the collaboration agreement, has resulted in a decline in pfizer’s share of spiriva revenues; the agreement has terminated in certain other countries (approximately $181 million),partially offset by:◦the strong operational performance of lyrica in europe (approximately $27 million); and◦the contribution from the collaboration with mylan inc. to market generic drugs in japan (approximately $35 million).the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% in the first quarter of 2014 also contributed to the decrease in gep revenues. total gep revenues from emerging markets were $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2014.•selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 23% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, due to lower expenses for field force and administration, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives. •research and development expenses decreased 24% in the first quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, due to lower operating expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, partially offset by increased spending on biosimilar r&d.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first quarter of 2014 primarily reflects gains on sales of product rights.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomechanges in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the first quarter of 2014 reflect the following:•for foreign currency translation adjustments, includes the reclassification of amounts associated with legal entity dispositions into income.•for unrealized holding losses on derivative financial instruments, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements (losses) and the reclassification of realized losses into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements (gains) and the reclassification of realized gains into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for benefit plans: actuarial gains, net, reflects the reclassification of certain amounts related to amortization and settlements into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the "analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows" section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.for information about certain balances in accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, see also the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a.71virtually all of the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of march 30, 2014, compared to december 31, 2013, reflect, among other things, decreases due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the following explanations exclude the impact of foreign exchange.•for accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change also reflects reduced revenues of certain products more than offset by the timing of collections in the normal course of business.•for inventories, the change also reflects decreases in pharmaceutical inventory in the normal course of business.•for other current assets, the change also reflects the receipt of a portion of the protonix patent litigation settlement income recognized in 2013 and a reduction in receivables in respect of derivative financial instruments. for additional information about the fair value of our financial instruments, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments. •for property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation, the change also reflects depreciation, partially offset by capital additions.•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change also reflects amortization and, to a much lesser extent, asset impairment charges. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9b. goodwill and other intangible assets: other intangible assets. for additional information about the asset impairment charges, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—net. •for other noncurrent assets, the change also reflects increased receivables in respect of derivative financial instruments. for additional information about the fair value of our financial instruments, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments. •for accounts payable, the change also reflects the timing of payments in the normal course of business.•for other current liabilities, the change also reflects an increase in our legal accruals, not yet paid, primarily for neurontin-related matters, partially offset by the timing of payments and accruals in the normal course of business. for additional information about the legal accruals, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—net. •for pension benefit obligations, net and postretirement benefit obligations, net, the change also reflects, among other things, pension contributions and benefit payments, partially offset by net periodic benefit cost. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for other noncurrent liabilities, the change also reflects decrease in liabilities in respect of derivative financial instruments and a decrease in the deferred compensation liability, as well as the movement of certain amounts to a current classification. for additional information about the fair value of our financial instruments, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments. analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows  three months ended  (millions of dollars) march 30, 2014 march 31, 2013 % changecash provided by/(used in):      operating activities $2,935 $2,303 27investing activities (98) (10,926) (99)financing activities (2,133) 434 *effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (25) — *net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $679 $(8,189) **calculation not meaningful.in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, are presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.72operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion in the first three months of 2014, compared to $2.3 billion in the same period of 2013. the increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business.in the first three months of 2014 and 2013, the change in the line item called other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, reflects changes in the ordinary course of business for accounts receivable, inventory, other current assets, accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities and, for the first three months of 2014, includes the adjustment necessary to reflect the increase in our legal accruals that have not yet been paid, primarily for neurontin-related matters. for additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a. for additional information about our legal accruals, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other deductions—netinvesting activitiesour net cash used in investing activities was $0.1 billion in the first three months of 2014, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $10.9 billion in the same period in 2013. the decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to net purchases of investments of $10.8 billion in the first three months of 2013.financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $2.1 billion in the first three months of 2014, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $0.4 billion in the same period in 2013. the increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•net proceeds from borrowings of $0.3 billion in the first three months of 2014, compared to net proceeds from borrowings of $6.1 billion in the first three months of 2013; and•proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $425 million in the first three months of 2014, compared to $642 million in the first three months of 2013,partially offset by:•purchases of common stock of $1.2 billion in the first three months of 2014, compared to $4.6 billion in the first three months of 2013.supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing informationin the first three months of 2013, we:•exchanged zoetis common stock for the retirement of pfizer commercial paper issued in 2013 for $2.5 billion;•exchanged zoetis senior notes for the retirement of pfizer commercial paper issued in 2012 for $1.0 billion; and•transferred certain product rights, valued at $1.2 billion, to an equity-method investment (hisun pfizer).zoetis is our former animal health business. for further details on zoetis-related transactions, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. divestiture and equity-method investments: divestiture, and for further details on the transfer of certain product rights, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2b. divestiture and equity-method investments: equity-method investments.analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our research and development activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;73•share repurchases;•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.see also the "proposed combination with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca)" section of this md&a above.our long-term debt is rated high quality by both standard & poor’s (s&p) and moody’s investors service (moody's). see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified and available-for-sale debt securities.selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) march 30, 2014 december 31, 2013selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $2,862 $2,183short-term investments(a) 31,019 30,225long-term investments(a) 15,822 16,406  49,703 48,814debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 9,319 6,027long-term debt 27,649 30,462  36,968 36,489net financial assets(b) $12,735 $12,325     working capital $33,003 $32,878ratio of current assets to current liabilities 2.33:1 2.41:1total pfizer inc. shareholders' equity per common share(c) $12.17 $11.93(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) net financial assets increased as net cash provided by operating activities and the proceeds from the exercise of stock options, among other things, more than offset share purchases and dividend payments. for additional information, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a.(c) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury shares).for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.domestic and international short-term fundsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. we generally hold approximately 10%-30% of these short-term funds in u.s. tax jurisdictions. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). repatriation of overseas funds can result in additional u.s. federal, state and local income tax payments. we record u.s. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s., no accrual for u.s. taxes is provided.74accounts receivablewe continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. historically, payments from a number of these european governments and government agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. there have been some improvements, especially in spain, in the amount of outstanding accounts receivable balances in excess of one year.we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments).as of march 30, 2014, we had about $900 million in aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in italy, spain, greece, portugal and ireland where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $100 million, were as follows: $51 million in italy; $27 million in spain; $11 million in greece; and $11 million in portugal.although certain european governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs.we will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts.our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. for information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions included in our 2013 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured non-credit-enhanced long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debt date of last action rating ratingoutlook moody’s p-1 a1stable october 2013s&p a-1+ aastable may 2013debt capacitywe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. as of march 30, 2014, we had access to $8.5 billion of lines of credit, of which $928 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $8.2 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request. also, $7.0 billion of the unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2018, may be used to support commercial paper borrowings.75global economic conditions––generalthe challenging economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a significant impact on our liquidity. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as markets change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. there can be no assurance that the challenging economic environment or a further economic downturn would not impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. see also "global economic conditions––venezuela operations" below.global economic conditions––venezuela operations our venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 of venezuelan currency to the u.s. dollar. we incurred a foreign currency loss of $80 million immediately on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local balance sheets, and have experienced and expect to continue to experience adverse impacts to our earnings as our revenues and expenses in venezuela continue to be translated into u.s. dollars at the lower 6.3 rate.in the first quarter of 2014, the venezuelan government expanded the number of exchange mechanisms, such that there are now three official rates of exchange, which, as of march 30, 2014, were the cencoex rate of 6.3; the sicad i rate of 10.7; and the sicad ii rate of 50.85.we continue to use the cencoex rate of 6.3 to report our venezuela financial position, results of operations and cash flows, since we believe that the nature of our business operations in venezuela (the importation, manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products and, to a lesser extent, consumer healthcare goods) would qualify for the most preferential rates permitted by law. we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the venezuelan currency or whether our use of the 6.3 rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. further, other potential actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically.as of march 30, 2014, our net monetary assets in venezuela that are subject to revaluation totaled approximately $360 million (remeasured at the 6.3 rate) and, during the first quarter of 2014, our revenues from venezuela totaled approximately $150 million (converted using the 6.3 rate).off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. these indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of march 30, 2014, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications are not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.share-purchase planon june 27, 2013, we announced that the board of directors had authorized a $10 billion share-purchase plan, and share purchases commenced thereunder in october 2013.76in the first quarter of 2014, we purchased approximately 38 million shares of our common stock for approximately $1.2 billion under our publicly announced share-purchase plan. in the first quarter of 2013, we purchased approximately 170 million shares of our common stock for approximately $4.6 billion under our publicly announced share-purchase plans. after giving effect to share purchases through march 30, 2014, our remaining share-repurchase authorization was approximately $4.3 billion.dividends on common stockin april 2014, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.26 per share, payable june 3, 2014, to shareholders of record at the close of business on may 9, 2014.new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of march 30, 2014none that would have impacted these financial statements.forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “forecast,” “goal,” “objective,” "aim" and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating or financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, plans related to share repurchases and dividends and business-development plans, including with respect to a possible combination with astrazeneca. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2014” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the “restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company's pension and postretirement plans during 2014 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, as well as their decisions regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products;•the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;•the success of external business-development activities;•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;77•the implementation by the fda of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products in the u.s., with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•the ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;•difficulties or delays in manufacturing;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment;•the impact of the u.s. budget control act of 2011 (the budget control act) and the deficit-reduction actions to be taken pursuant to the budget control act in order to achieve the deficit-reduction targets provided for therein, and the impact of any broader deficit-reduction efforts;• the impact of u.s. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010—the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act––and of any modification or repeal of any of the provisions thereof;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; direct-to-consumer advertising and interactions with healthcare professionals; and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain european and emerging market countries and japan;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest and unstable governments and legal systems;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs, the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to product liability, patent protection, government investigations, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental and tax issues, ongoing efforts to explore various means for resolving asbestos litigation, and other legal proceedings;•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesaler customers, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;78•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate;•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; •uncertainties related to a possible combination between pfizer and astrazeneca, including, without limitation, whether astrazeneca will engage in discussions with us regarding a possible combination; whether and on what terms we will pursue or consummate any combination with astrazeneca, including whether the conditions to consummating any such combination will be satisfied or waived; and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including operational and financial synergies, potential growth opportunities and other benefits, from any such combination; and•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls and withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our research and development organization, and of the internal separation of our commercial operations into three new global businesses effective january 1, 2014.we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q, 8-k and 10-k reports and our other filings with the sec.our 2013 annual report on form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. reference is also made to part ii, item 1a, “risk factors,” of this quarterly report on form 10-q. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented.this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.79legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings in part i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.