item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsintroductionsee the glossary of defined terms at the beginning of this quarterly report on form 10-q for terms used throughout this md&a. our md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:●overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookbeginning on page 52 this section provides information about the following: our business; our performance during the first quarter of 2018 and 2017; our operating environment; the global economic environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2018. ●significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptionsbeginning on page 65 this section discusses updates to our 2017 financial report disclosures for those accounting policies and estimates that we consider important in understanding our consolidated financial statements. for additional discussion of our accounting policies, see notes to consolidated financial statements—note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomebeginning on page 66 this section includes a revenues overview section as well as the following sub-sections:  ○  revenues - selected product discussionbeginning on page 69 this sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products.  ○  product developments - biopharmaceuticalbeginning on page 75 this sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.  ○  costs and expensesbeginning on page 79 this sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.  ○  provision for taxes on incomebeginning on page 81 this sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.  ○  non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)beginning on page 82 this sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. ●analysis of operating segment informationbeginning on page 86 this section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. ●selected balance sheet information by operating segmentbeginning on page 92 this section provides a discussion of certain balance sheet accounts by operating segment. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomebeginning on page 92 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsbeginning on page 93 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flowsbeginning on page 94 this section provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first three months of 2018 and 2017. ●analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourcesbeginning on page 95 this section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of april 1, 2018 and december 31, 2017, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of april 1, 2018 and december 31, 2017. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer’s future activities. ●new accounting standardsbeginning on page 99 this section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. ●forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsbeginning on page 101 this section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a, relating to, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and products supply, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. also included in this section is a discussion of legal proceedings and contingencies. certain amounts in our md&a may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.50the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 %changerevenues $12,906 $12,779 1       cost of sales(a) 2,563 2,468 4% of revenues 19.9% 19.3%         selling, informational and administrative expenses(a) 3,412 3,315 3% of revenues 26.4% 25.9%         research and development expenses(a) 1,743 1,716 2% of revenues 13.5% 13.4%         amortization of intangible assets 1,196 1,186 1% of revenues 9.3% 9.3%         restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 43 84 (49)% of revenues 0.3% 0.7%         other (income)/deductions––net (178) 60 *income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 4,127 3,951 4% of revenues 32.0% 30.9%         provision for taxes on income 556 821 (32)effective tax rate 13.5% 20.8%         income from continuing operations 3,571 3,130 14% of revenues 27.7% 24.5%         discontinued operations––net of tax (1) — *       net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 3,570 3,130 14% of revenues 27.7% 24.5%         less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 9 7net income attributable to pfizer inc. $3,561 $3,121 14% of revenues 27.6% 24.4%         earnings per common share––basic:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.60 $0.52 15net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.60 $0.52 15       earnings per common share––diluted:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.59 $0.51 15net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.59 $0.51 15       cash dividends paid per common share $0.34 $0.32 6* calculation not meaningful.(a) excludes amortization of intangible assets, except as disclosed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill:identifiable intangible assets.51overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (alliance revenues).we manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information and the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a below.the majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2017 form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, the ability to replenish innovative biopharmaceutical products, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. we also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. for additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “our operating environment” and “the global economic environment” sections of this md&a and of our 2017 financial report, part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors” of this quarterly report on form 10-q.the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the u.s. is as of and for the three months ended february 25, 2018 and february 26, 2017. the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for u.s. subsidiaries is as of and for the three months ended april 1, 2018 and april 2, 2017.references to developed and emerging markets in this md&a include:developed markets u.s., western europe, japan, canada, australia, south korea, scandinavian countries, finland and new zealand   emerging markets (includes, but is not limited to) asia (excluding japan and south korea), latin america, eastern europe, africa, the middle east, central europe and turkeyreferences to operational variances in this md&a pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. the operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current period u.s. dollar results by the current period average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year period average foreign exchange rates. although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information in evaluating the results of our business.on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted significant changes to u.s. tax law following the passage and signing of the tcja. the tcja is complex and significantly changes the u.s. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. for information on estimates and assumptions in connection with the tcja, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations.we continue to review strategic options for our consumer healthcare business. we remain disciplined regarding our capital allocation, and at this time we have not received an acceptable offer for the sale of this business. we will continue our management of this strong business as we explore other alternatives, which could include everything from a full or partial separation of the business to ultimately deciding to retain the business. we continue to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business will be made during 2018.52our other recent significant business development activities include:•on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion systems net assets, his, to icu medical for up to approximately $900 million, composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, icu medical common stock and seller financing. at closing, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of icu medical common stock, which we initially valued at approximately $428 million, a promissory note in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. in addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on icu medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through december 31, 2019. the operating results of his are included in our condensed consolidated statement of income and eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations, while our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for the first quarter of 2018 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations.•on december 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s. for $1,040 million, composed of cash and contingent consideration. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of this business, and, in accordance with our international reporting period, our financial results, eh’s operating results, and cash flows for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately two months of the small molecule anti-infectives business acquired from astrazeneca and our financial results, eh’s operating results, and cash flows for the first quarter of 2018 reflect three months of the small molecule anti-infective business acquired from astrazeneca.for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisition, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, licensing arrangement and collaborative arrangements and the “our strategy” and “our business development initiatives” sections of this md&a below.impact of recent hurricanes in puerto ricowe have manufacturing and commercial operations in puerto rico, which were impacted by the hurricanes toward the end of the third quarter in 2017. while our three manufacturing sites sustained some damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting puerto rico overall, as of the date of this quarterly report on form 10-q filing, all three sites have resumed operations and remediation activities continue. given prior inoperability along with ongoing remediation of our sites, there could be certain product shortages in the coming months. our commercial sales offices in puerto rico have been operational since october 2017.product manufacturingwe periodically encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including due to suspension of manufacturing or voluntary recall of a product, or legal or regulatory actions such as warning letters. in february 2017, for example, we received a warning letter from the fda communicating the fda’s view that certain violations of current good manufacturing practice regulations exist at hospira’s manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. we are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda. in january 2018, the fda upgraded the status of pfizer’s mcpherson, kansas manufacturing facility to vai based on an october 2017 inspection. the change to vai status lifted the compliance hold that the fda placed on approval of pending applications, and is an important step toward resolving the issues cited in the february 2017 fda warning letter. within our essential health portfolio, we have been experiencing product shortages with some products. the product shortages are primarily for products from the legacy hospira portfolio and are largely driven by capacity constraints, technical issues and supplier quality concerns. in addition to the mcpherson facility, we continue to remediate issues at other legacy hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables within our essential health portfolio. any continuing product shortage interruption at these manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results, specifically in our sip portfolio. we continue with our comprehensive remediation plan to upgrade and modernize these facilities, and we expect additional capacity to be available in 2019 onwards.53our first quarter 2018 performancerevenuesrevenues in the first quarter of 2018 increased $127 million, or 1% compared to the same period in 2017, which reflects the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $430 million, or 3%, partially offset by an operational decrease of $302 million, or 2%.the following provides an analysis of the changes in revenues for the first quarter of 2018:(millions of dollars)     revenues, for the three months ended april 2, 2017 $12,779  operational growth/(decline):  continued growth from key brands(a) and growth from biosimilars(b) 539declines from our sip portfolio (primarily in the u.s.), peri-loe products (excluding viagra eh(c), which was impacted by the shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues to eh), total viagra(c) (primarily in the u.s.), enbrel (driven by declines in most developed europe markets), our lep portfolio (primarily in developed markets) as well as a decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (primarily in the u.s.) (851)disposition-related impact of the february 2017 sale of his(d) (97)other operational factors, net 106operational decline, net (302)   operational revenues 12,477favorable impact of foreign exchange 430revenues, for the three months ended april 1, 2018 $12,906(a) key brands include ibrance, eliquis and xeljanz (globally).(b) growth in biosimilars was primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s. as well as in developed europe.(c) viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, total viagra revenues in 2018 are reported in eh. total viagra revenues in 2017 represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh.(d) impact on financial results for the sale of his in february 2017. the first quarter of 2018 does not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the same period in 2017.see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues and product developments––revenues by segment and geography” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance.54income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on incomethe following provides an analysis of the increase in income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income for the first quarter of 2018: (millions of dollars)  income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three months ended april 2, 2017 $3,951favorable change in revenues 127favorable/(unfavorable) changes:  higher net periodic benefit credits other than service costs(a) 143higher net unrealized gains on equity securities(a) 111higher income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights(a) 94lower restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs(b) 41lower loss on sale of his(a) 34lower certain legal matters, net(a) 28higher selling, information and administrative expenses(c) (97)higher cost of sales(d) (95)higher charges from the change in the fair value of contingent consideration(a) (82)lower net gains on asset disposals(a) (71)higher research and development expenses(e) (28)all other items, net (30)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three months ended april 1, 2018 $4,127(a) see the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.(b) see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a.(c) see the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses” section of this md&a.(d) see the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a. (e) see the “costs and expenses––research and development (r&d) expenses” section of this md&a.for information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters.our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesintellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with generic manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. however, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we lose exclusivity on these products, and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar products and sell them for a lower price. the date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, when generic competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio have been challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. the invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace.as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2017 financial report for additional information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity in the u.s., europe and/or japan impacting product revenues and (ii) recent losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. 55we lost or expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years, including, among others, the expiration of the basic product patent for lyrica in the u.s. in december 2018. pfizer is currently pursuing a six-month patent-term extension for pediatric exclusivity for lyrica in the u.s. with the fda. for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2017 form 10-k.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. contingencies and certain commitments: legal proceedings––patent litigation.for worldwide revenues, by geography, for selected products, see the discussion in the “revenues––selected product discussion” section of this md&a. for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of certain products, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13c. segment, geographic and other revenue information: other revenue information.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. for additional information, see the “government regulation and price constraints” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2017 form 10-k. we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017reduction to revenues, related to the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision $101 $58selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes), based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. the amount in 2018 also reflected a favorable true-up associated with the updated 2017 invoice received from the federal government, which reflected a lower expense than what was previously estimated for invoiced periods. 3 37regulatory environment/pricing and access––government and other payer group pressuresthe pricing of medicines by pharmaceutical manufacturers and the cost of healthcare, which includes medicines, medical services and hospital services, continues to be important to payors, governments, patients, and other stakeholders. we believe that medicines are amongst the most powerful tool for patients in curing, treating and preventing illness and disability, and that all patients should have appropriate access to the medicines their doctors prescribe. we may consider a number of factors when determining a medicine’s price, including, for example, its impact on patients and their disease, other available treatments, the medicine’s potential to reduce other healthcare costs (such as hospital stays), and affordability. within the u.s., in particular, we may also engage with patients, doctors and healthcare plans regarding their views, and then negotiate with insurers, including pbms and mcos, often providing significant discounts to them from the initial price. the price that patients pay in the u.s. for the medicines their physicians prescribe is ultimately set by healthcare providers and insurers. on average, in the u.s., insurers cover a much lower share of prescription drug costs than medical services, which results in a greater proportion of out-of-pocket costs being passed on to patients for medicines, thereby making them less accessible and affordable. we will continue to work with insurance providers, governments and others to improve access to today’s innovative treatments.governments, mcos and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. in the u.s., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. significant medicare reductions could also result if congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. 56consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue.efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. recently, there has been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. there have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. certain state legislation has been subject to legal challenges.adoption of new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we will continue to work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system.we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. the likelihood of such a repeal currently appears low given the failure of the senate’s multiple attempts to repeal various combinations of aca provisions. in october 2017, the president signed an executive order directing federal agencies to look for ways to authorize more health plans that could be less expensive because the plans would not have to meet all of the aca’s coverage requirements, and announced that his administration will withhold the cost-sharing subsidies paid to health insurance exchange plans serving low-income enrollees. in december 2017, the comprehensive tax reform package signed into law, the tcja (see the “the global economic environment” section below for more information), includes a provision that effectively repealed the aca’s individual mandate by removing the penalties. these and similar actions by the administration are widely expected to lead to fewer americans having comprehensive aca-compliant health insurance, even in the absence of a legislative repeal. however, the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges under the aca are minor, so the impact of the recent administration actions is expected to be limited. there is no assurance that any future replacement, modification or repeal of the aca will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage. we also may face uncertainties if our industry is looked to for savings to fund certain legislation, such as lifting the debt ceiling. one recent example is the bipartisan budget act of 2018, which increased the discount we pay in the medicare part d “coverage gap” from 50% to 70%, which will modestly reduce our future medicare part d revenues.the potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca to be imposed in 2022, are already scaling back healthcare benefits and an increasing number are implementing high deductible benefit designs. this is a trend that is likely to continue. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes.overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. outside the u.s., governments, including the different eu member states, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries, varying health outcomes and some third-party trade in our products between countries.in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations (un) and the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 un high level panel report on access to medicines and 2017 oecd report on new 57health technologies––managing access, value and sustainability). government adoption of these recommendations may lead to additional pricing pressures.in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. for additional information, see the “regulatory environment––pipeline productivity” and “competition” sections of our 2017 financial report.the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. •governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. examples include europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets. the u.s. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage.•significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” and the “our financial guidance for 2018” sections of this md&a. •in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as “brexit”. in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. formal negotiations officially started in june 2017. this process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. the ema announced in november 2017 that it will be relocating from london, u.k. to amsterdam, netherlands by the expected date of brexit in march 2019.we generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the u.k. in 2017 and in the first quarter of 2018. however, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu. in addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable.we anticipate incurring certain legal, regulatory and supply chain costs to ensure continuity of our business activities in both the u.k. and the eu, currently estimated at approximately $100 million.•on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted significant changes to u.s. tax law following the passage and signing of the tcja. the tcja is complex and significantly changes the u.s. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the 58u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. given the significant changes resulting from and complexities associated with the tcja, the estimated financial impacts for 2017, as well as the estimated impact on 2018 financial guidance for the effective tax rate on adjusted income are provisional and subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the tcja, which could result in changes to these estimates during 2018. for additional information, see the “our financial guidance for 2018”, “provision for taxes on income” and “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations.pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both s&p and moody’s. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors” of this quarterly report on form 10-q.our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. commercial operationswe manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). the ih and eh operating segments are each led by a single manager. each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain ipr&d projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets.59some additional information about our business segments as of april 1, 2018 follows:   ●ih focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare.key therapeutic areas include internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare disease and consumer healthcare. ●eh includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded and generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars, and select branded products including anti-infectives. eh also includes an r&d organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business.through february 2, 2017, eh also included his. ●we expect that the ih biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to help ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by ih are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. ●eh is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. eh leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. additionally, eh leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. eh may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.●ih will have continued focus on r&d productivity and pipeline strength while maximizing the value of our recently launched brands and in-line portfolio. we have also expanded our pipeline in high priority therapeutic areas such as inflammation and immunology and oncology with select business development transactions. ●for eh, we continue to invest in growth drivers and manage the portfolio to extract additional value while seeking opportunities for operating efficiencies. this strategy includes active management of our portfolio; maximizing growth of core product segments; acquisitions to strengthen core areas of our portfolio further, such as our acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business; and divestitures to increase focus on our core strengths. in line with this strategy, on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion systems net assets, representing the infusion systems net assets that we acquired as part of the hospira transaction, his, to icu medical. leading brands include:- prevnar 13/prevenar 13- xeljanz- eliquis- lyrica (u.s., japan and certain other markets)- enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada)- ibrance- xtandi- several otc consumer healthcare products (e.g., advil and  centrum)  leading brands include:- lipitor- premarin family- norvasc- lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asiacountries)- celebrex- viagra*- inflectra/remsima- several sterile injectable products*viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, total viagra worldwide revenues are reported in eh from the first quarter of 2018 forward.for additional information about the first quarter of 2018 performance and selected balance sheet information as of december 31, 2017, for each of our operating segments, see the “analysis of operating segment information” and the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” sections of this md&a.60description of research and development operationsinnovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. our r&d priorities include: •delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial potential;•advancing our capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership; and •creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our r&d primarily focuses on:•biosimilars; •inflammation and immunology;•metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks;•oncology;•rare diseases; and•vaccines.in january 2018, we announced our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts and re-allocate funding to other areas where we have stronger scientific leadership. we have created a dedicated neuroscience venture fund to support continued efforts to advance the field. the development of tanezumab and potential treatments for rare neuromuscular disorders is not impacted by this decision.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations: •research units within our wrd organization are generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our ih business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our research units are organized by therapeutic area to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources within a research unit between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. •our r&d organization within the eh business supports the large base of eh products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. •our gpd organization is a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products and is generally responsible for the operational execution of clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. gpd combines certain previously separate development-related functions from the ih business and the wrd organization to achieve a development capability that is expected to deliver high-quality, efficient, and well-executed clinical programs by enabling greater speed, greater cost efficiencies, and reduced complexity across our development portfolio. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects. •our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&d spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicinal chemistry, regulatory and drug safety, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. as a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs.we manage r&d operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. specifically, a single committee with representation from the r&d groups and the ih commercial organization is accountable for aligning resources among all of our wrd, gpd and ih r&d projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the innovative r&d portfolio. we believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. our eh r&d organization manages its resources separately from the wrd and gpd organizations.generally, we do not disaggregate total r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our r&d operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending.while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes 61or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations, alliances and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments––biopharmaceutical” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. for additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights and certain other patent proceedings, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. contingencies and certain commitments: legal proceedings––patent litigation. for information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see “risks related to intellectual property” in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a. for additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.increasing investment in the u.s.––after evaluating the expected positive net impact the tcja will have on us, we decided to take several actions:•over the next five years, we plan to invest approximately $5.0 billion in capital projects in the u.s., including the strengthening of our manufacturing presence in the u.s. •we made a $500 million voluntary contribution to our u.s. pension plan in february 2018.•in the fourth quarter of 2017, we made a $200 million charitable contribution to the pfizer foundation, an organization that provides grant and investment funding to support organizations and social entrepreneurs in an effort to improve healthcare delivery.•in the first quarter of 2018, we paid a special, one-time bonus to virtually all pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $108 million in the aggregate.our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a 62disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen one or both of our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of hospira, medivation, anacor, and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies, including our collaborations with opko and merck kgaa. we assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses.we continue to review strategic options for our consumer healthcare business. we remain disciplined regarding our capital allocation, and at this time we have not received an acceptable offer for the sale of this business. we will continue our management of this strong business as we explore other alternatives, which could include everything from a full or partial separation of the business to ultimately deciding to retain the business. we continue to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business will be made during 2018.for additional information on our business development activities, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisition, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, licensing arrangement and collaborative arrangements.the more significant recent transactions and events are described below:•sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh)––on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion systems net assets, his, to icu medical. in connection with this transaction, we recognized a pre-tax loss of approximately $3 million in the first quarter of 2018 and a pre-tax loss of approximately $37 million in the first quarter of 2017 in other (income)/deductions––net, representing adjustments to amounts previously recorded in 2016 to write down the his net assets to fair value less costs to sell. we may record additional adjustments to the loss on the sale of his net assets in future periods, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.•acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business (eh)––on december 22, 2016, which fell in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s. the total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $555 million in cash plus the fair value of contingent consideration of $485 million.•research and development arrangement with novaquest co-investment fund v, l.p.––in april 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with novaquest under which novaquest will fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s rivipansel compound and pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. novaquest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately 12 quarters from 2016 to 2019. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to novaquest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $14.4 million and the reduction to research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2017 totaled $17.2 million. following potential regulatory approval, novaquest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total, based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•research and development arrangement with rpi finance trust––in january 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with rpi, a subsidiary of royalty pharma, under which rpi will fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the indication). rpi’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials through 2021. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to rpi, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2018 totaled $23.2 million and the reduction to research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2017 totaled $14.5 million. if successful and upon approval of ibrance in the u.s. or certain major markets in the eu for the indication based on the applicable clinical trials, rpi will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain ibrance sales over approximately seven years. fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 22, 2018, the filing date of our 2017 form 10-k, see the “our business development initiatives” section of our 2017 financial report.63our financial guidance for 2018on may 1, 2018, we reaffirmed all components of our 2018 financial guidance.pfizer’s complete 2018 financial guidance is summarized below(a), (b):revenues$53.5 to $55.5 billionadjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues20.5% to 21.5%adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$14.0 to $15.0 billionadjusted research and development expenses$7.4 to $7.9 billionadjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately $400 million of incomeeffective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 17.0%adjusted diluted eps$2.90 to $3.00(a) the 2018 financial guidance reflects the following:•a full year contribution from consumer healthcare. pfizer continues to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for consumer healthcare would be made during 2018.•does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of april 1, 2018, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions.•guidance for adjusted other (income)/deductions does not attempt to forecast unrealized net gains or losses on equity securities. pfizer is unable to predict with reasonable certainty unrealized gains or losses on equity securities in a given period. net unrealized gains and losses on equity securities are now recorded in adjusted other (income)/deductions during each quarter, reflecting the adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards). prior to the adoption of the new standard, net unrealized gains and losses on virtually all readily tradeable equity securities were reported in accumulated other comprehensive income.•exchange rates assumed are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through first-quarter 2018 and mid-april 2018 exchange rates for the remainder of the year.•reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.0 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. assumes no generic competition for lyrica in the u.s. until june 2019, which is contingent upon a six-month patent-term extension granted by the fda for pediatric exclusivity, which the company is currently pursuing. •reflects the anticipated favorable impact of $1.3 billion on revenues and $0.09 on adjusted diluted eps as a result of favorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2017.•guidance for adjusted diluted eps assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.0 billion shares, which reflects share repurchases totaling approximately $6.1 billion in 2018. dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs is expected to offset by approximately half the reduction in shares associated with these share repurchases.(b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.pfizer does not provide guidance for gaap reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-gaap financial measures to the most directly comparable gaap reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. these items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on gaap reported results for the guidance period. for information about our actual costs and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our three-year cost-reduction initiative entered into in the fourth quarter of 2016, the hospira acquisition, our recent business development activities, and global commercial structure, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our 2018 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “our operating environment”, “the global economic environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2017 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors” of this quarterly report on form 10-q.64significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptionsfor a description of our significant accounting policies, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies in our 2017 form 10-k and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues. of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) acquisitions (2017 form 10-k note 1d); (ii) fair value (2017 form 10-k note 1e); (iii) revenues (note 1c in this quarterly report on form 10-q); (iv) asset impairments (2017 form 10-k note 1k); (v) income tax assets and liabilities and income tax assets and liabilities and income tax contingencies (2017 form 10-k note 1o); (vi) pension and postretirement benefit plans (2017 form 10-k note 1p); and legal and environmental contingencies (2017 form 10-k note 1q). for a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements, see the “significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions” section of our 2017 financial report. see also notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions in our 2017 form 10-k for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions.for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards and significant accounting policies, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards, note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues and note 1d. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: collaborative arrangements.revenuesour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns. these deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment is required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. if any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. the sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. however, estimates associated with u.s. medicare, medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters.income tax assets and liabilitiesin the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimate of certain tax effects of the tcja, including the impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities from the reduction in the u.s federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, the impact on valuation allowances and other state income tax considerations, a repatriation tax liability on accumulated post-1986 foreign earnings for which we plan to elect payment over eight years through 2026 that is reported primarily in other taxes payable, and deferred taxes on basis differences expected to give rise to future taxes on global intangible low-taxed income. in addition, we had provided deferred tax liabilities in the past on foreign earnings that were not indefinitely reinvested. as a result of the tcja, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we reversed an estimate of the deferred taxes that are no longer expected to be needed due to the change to the territorial tax system. the estimated amounts recorded may change in the future due to uncertain tax positions. the tcja subjects a u.s. shareholder to current tax on global intangible low-taxed income earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. the fasb staff q&a, topic 740, no. 5, accounting for global intangible low-taxed income, states that we are permitted to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years or provide for the tax expense related to such income in the year the tax is incurred. we have elected to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years. however, given the complexity of these provisions, we have not finalized our analysis. we were able to make a reasonable estimate of the deferred taxes on the temporary differences expected to reverse in the future and provided a provisional deferred tax liability as of december 31, 2017. the provisional amount is based on the evaluation of certain temporary differences 65inside each of our foreign subsidiaries that are expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income. however, as we continue to evaluate the tcja’s global intangible low-taxed income provisions during the measurement period, we may revise the methodology used for determining the deferred tax liability associated with such income.we believe that we have made reasonable estimates with respect to each of the above items, however, all of the amounts recorded are provisional as we have not completed our analysis of the complex and far reaching effects of the tcja. further, we continue to consider our assertions on any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries as of april 1, 2018 and have not completed our analysis. under guidance issued by the staff of the sec, we expect to finalize our accounting related to the tax effects of the tcja on deferred taxes, valuation allowances, state tax considerations, the repatriation tax liability, global intangible low-taxed income, and any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries during 2018 as we complete our analysis, computations and assertions. we will revise these estimates during 2018 as we gather additional information to complete our tax returns and as any interpretation or clarification of the tcja occurs through legislation, u.s. treasury actions or other means.income tax assets and liabilities also include income tax valuation allowances and accruals for uncertain tax positions. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements—note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions; note 1o. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: tax assets and liabilities and income tax contingencies and note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations in our 2017 form 10-k, as well as the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources––selected measures of liquidity and capital resources—contractual obligations” section of our 2017 financial report.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income revenues and product developments revenues by segment and geographythe following tables provide worldwide revenues by operating segment and geography:  three months ended  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) apr 1, 2018 apr 2, 2017 apr 1, 2018 apr 2, 2017 apr 1, 2018 apr 2, 2017 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $7,829 $7,415 $4,544 $4,493 $3,285 $2,922 6 1 12eh 5,077 5,364 1,731 2,144 3,347 3,220 (5) (19) 4total revenues $12,906 $12,779 $6,275 $6,637 $6,631 $6,142 1 (5) 8(a) ih = the innovative health segment; and eh = the essential health segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” and “analysis of operating segment information” sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.66revenues––first quarter of 2018 vs. first quarter of 2017the following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in the first quarter of 2018:(millions of dollars) three months ended april 1, 2018  worldwide u.s. international      operational growth/(decline):      continued growth from key brands including ibrance, eliquis and xeljanz (globally) $484 $252 $232growth from biosimilars, primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s. as well as in developed europe 56 38 18decline from the sip portfolio, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (236) (255) 19decline from peri-loe products (excluding viagra eh(a), which was impacted by the shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues to eh at the beginning of 2018), driven by expected declines in lyrica in developed europe and pristiq in the u.s. due to generic competition (212) (73) (139)lower revenues for total viagra(a), primarily in the u.s. due to generic competition that began in december 2017 (157) (153) (4)lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition (122) — (122)impact on financial results for the sale of his in february 2017. the first quarter of 2018 does not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the same period in 2017 (97) (64) (33)decline in the lep portfolio, primarily due to generic competition in developed markets (83) (106) 23decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues. international revenues increased, compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to the favorable impact of the inclusion of prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult indication as well as higher volumes for the pediatric indication resulting from the second-quarter 2017 launch of prevenar 13 in china and increased shipments associated with gavi, the vaccine alliance, partially offset by the overall unfavorable impact of timing associated with government purchases in certain international markets. u.s. revenues decreased, compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower government purchases for the pediatric indication due to a change in ordering patterns and, to a lesser extent, the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity  (41) (113) 72other operational factors, net 106 113 (7)operational growth/(decline), net (302) (362) 60      favorable impact of foreign exchange 430 — 430revenues increase/(decrease) $127 $(362) $490(a) viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, total viagra revenues in 2018 are reported in eh. total viagra revenues in 2017 represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh. emerging markets revenues increased $511 million, or 20%, in the first quarter of 2018 to $3.1 billion, reflecting an operational increase of $386 million, or 15%. foreign exchange had a favorable impact of approximately 5% on emerging markets revenues. the operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by our ih segment as well as our legacy established products and sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolios. revenue deductionsour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns. these deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment is required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net 67decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenuesthe following table provides information about revenue deductions:  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017medicare rebates(a) $398 $260medicaid and related state program rebates(a) 495 445performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 760 729chargebacks(c) 1,611 1,498sales allowances(d) 1,328 1,111sales returns and cash discounts 346 324total(e) $4,939 $4,367(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with mcos within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pbms, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. outside the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to u.s. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the u.s., discounts and distribution fees.(e) for the three months ended april 1, 2018, associated with the following segments: ih ($2.0 billion) and eh ($2.9 billion). for the three months ended april 2, 2017, associated with the following segments: ih ($1.9 billion); and eh ($2.5 billion).total revenue deductions for the first quarter of 2018 increased 13% compared to the first quarter of 2017, primarily as a result of:•an increase in sales allowances as a result of sales growth, primarily in international markets;•an increase in medicare rebates driven by increased sales of ih products through this channel;•higher chargebacks to u.s. wholesalers on certain eh products, partially offset by decreases in sales of sterile injectable products; and•an increase in medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of increased sales of ih products through these programs.for information on our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts, including the balance sheet classification of these accruals, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues.68revenues––selected product discussionthe tables below provide worldwide revenues, by geography, for selected products. references to total change pertains to period-over-period growth rates that include foreign exchange. the difference between the total change and operational change represents the impact of foreign exchange. amounts may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. an asterisk (*) indicates the calculation is not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%.•prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $826 $938 (12)  international 555 454 22 16worldwide revenues $1,380 $1,392 (1) (3)the decline in the u.s. was primarily due to lower government purchases for the pediatric indication due to a change in ordering patterns and, to a lesser extent, the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication in the u.s. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults age 65 and older who have not been previously vaccinated with prevnar 13) compared to the prior-year quarter. we expect revenues from the adult indication in the u.s. for 2018 to be flat to declining as the remaining cohort of adults 65 years and over is much more difficult to capture. the operational growth internationally was primarily due to the favorable impact of the inclusion of prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult indication as well as higher volumes for the pediatric indication resulting from the second-quarter 2017 launch of prevenar 13 in china and increased shipments associated with gavi, the vaccine alliance, partially offset by the overall unfavorable impact of timing associated with government purchases in certain international markets compared to the prior-year quarter. in 2014, the acip voted to recommend prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. these acip recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the cdc and u.s. department of health and human services, and were published in the morbidity and mortality weekly report in september 2014 by the cdc. as with other vaccines, the cdc regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the cdc announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018, which commenced at a meeting in february 2018. a potential adverse change in the acip recommendation could negatively impact future prevnar 13 revenues. currently, we are working with a number of u.s. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends.•lyrica (eh (revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia)/ih (revenues from all other geographies)):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $907 $891 2  international 307 380 (19) (24)worldwide revenues $1,213 $1,271 (5) (6)the growth in the u.s. was driven by sustained demand and positive price impact.the operational decline internationally was primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets, australia and korea.the following table provides worldwide revenues for lyrica in our ih segment, by geography:  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $907 $891 2  international 225 240 (6) (9)worldwide revenues $1,131 $1,131 — (1)69worldwide lyrica revenues in our ih segment declined operationally, primarily due to losses of exclusivity in australia and korea, partially offset by sustained demand and positive price impact in the u.s.the following table provides worldwide revenues for lyrica in our eh segment, by geography:  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $— $— —  international 82 141 (42) (48)worldwide revenues $82 $141 (42) (48)worldwide lyrica revenues in our eh segment declined operationally due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets.•ibrance (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $726 $608 19  international 207 71 * *worldwide revenues $933 $679 37 35the worldwide operational growth reflects ibrance class leadership among cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors in major markets with continuous share uptake in the u.s. supported by our scientific/clinical data and continued positive patient experience as well as an uptake in international markets, mostly driven by key european markets and japan where we secured access and reimbursement.•eliquis alliance revenues and direct sales (ih): eliquis has been jointly developed and is commercialized by pfizer and bms. pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where pfizer commercializes eliquis and pays bms compensation based on a percentage of net sales. we have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant (noac) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients.  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $435 $342 27  international 330 223 48 35worldwide revenues $765 $564 35 30the worldwide operational growth was primarily driven by higher demand resulting from increased market penetration of novel oral anticoagulants and market share gain.•lipitor (eh):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $29 $30 (6)  international 483 374 29 21worldwide revenues $511 $404 27 19the worldwide operational growth was primarily driven by increased demand in china, partially offset by pricing pressures in china and in the u.s.70•enbrel (ih, outside the u.s. and canada):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $— $— —  international 506 588 (14) (21)worldwide revenues $506 $588 (14) (21)the worldwide operational decline was primarily due to ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed europe markets, which is expected to continue.•xeljanz (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $253 $212 19  international 72 38 89 82worldwide revenues $326 $250 30 29the growth in the u.s. was primarily driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists, growing awareness among patients and improvements in payer access.the operational growth internationally was primarily driven by continued uptake in emerging markets, japan and canada, as well as new launch markets (such as germany).•benefix and refacto af/xyntha (ih):benefix three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $68$5916  international 79 91 (13) (20)worldwide revenues $147 $149 (2) (6)the worldwide operational decline was primarily as a result of erosion of market share in developed europe markets due to increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options.refacto af/xyntha  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $30 $26 14  international 100 104 (4) (12)worldwide revenues $130 $130 — (7)the worldwide operational decline was primarily as a result of erosion of market share in developed europe markets due to increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options.•sutent (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $88 $85 3  international 174 165 6 (2)worldwide revenues $262 $250 5 (1)71the worldwide operational decline was primarily due to lower volumes driven by competitive pressure in certain developed and emerging europe markets, partially offset by increased performance in other emerging markets outside of europe.•norvasc (eh):   three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $9 $10 (5)  international 245 218 12 6worldwide revenues $254 $22812 6the worldwide operational growth was primarily driven by increased demand in china, partially offset by pricing pressures in china and generic competition in japan.•chantix/champix (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $188 $179 5  international 64 61 5 (2)worldwide revenues $251 $239 5 3the growth in the u.s. was primarily due to increased promotional activities, educating healthcare providers on updates to the chantix label, including removal of the boxed warning, improved patient access and positive price impact.•the premarin family of products (eh):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $180 $214 (16)  international 11 14 (19) (24)worldwide revenues $191 $228 (16) (16)the worldwide operational decline was primarily driven by lower volume in the u.s. and internationally.•viagra (eh): viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, are reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, total viagra worldwide revenues are reported in eh from the first quarter of 2018 forward.  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $88 $242 (63)  international 99 97 2 (4)worldwide revenues $187 $339 (45) (46)the decline in the u.s. was primarily due to the loss of exclusivity in december 2017.the operational decline internationally was primarily due to lower volumes in europe and certain middle eastern markets, partially offset by increased demand in china.72•sulperazon (eh):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $— $— —  international 168 122 38 29worldwide revenues $168 $122 38 29the worldwide operational growth was primarily due to increased demand in china.•xtandi alliance revenues (ih): xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi. subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. pfizer and astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions—net).  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $159 $131 21  international — — — —worldwide revenues $159 $131 21 21the growth in the u.s. was driven by continued growth of xtandi in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. while enrollment rates in patient assistance programs (pap), which provide free medicines to patients, fluctuate throughout the year, we have observed a reduction in pap utilization in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017.•xalkori (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $42 $57 (26)  international 110 85 31 21worldwide revenues $153 $142 8 2the worldwide operational growth was a result of a continued increase in diagnostic rates for the alk gene mutation across key markets and share in first-line alk treatment outside the u.s., as well as uptake in treatment of patients with metastatic nsclc whose tumors are ros1-positive. this growth was partially offset by volume declines in the alk indication across certain developed markets, primarily in the u.s., as a result of competitive pressure. •celebrex (eh):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $16 $30 (49)  international 129 144 (11) (15)worldwide revenues $145 $175 (17) (21)the worldwide operational decline was primarily driven by lower volumes in the u.s., certain middle eastern markets and japan, as well as pricing pressure in the u.s. and mexico.73•inflectra/remsima (eh):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $55 $17 *  international 90 61 48 32worldwide revenues $145 $78 86 73the worldwide operational growth was due to continued uptake in certain channels in the u.s. as well as in developed markets in europe, partially offset by pricing pressures in these markets.inflectra uptake in the u.s. is being driven by a number of factors including inflectra’s clinical data package, patient support programs, price and the access/reimbursement environment. to date, reimbursement coverage has been mixed. while we achieved 100% medicare coverage, we have experienced access challenges among commercial payers where our lower priced product has not received access at parity to the innovator product and remains in a disadvantaged position despite the higher price of innovator product. we will look at all relevant factors impacting reimbursement given our extensive experience working with commercial payers to enable greater access for inflectra. additionally, in september 2017, pfizer filed suit in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against j&j alleging that j&j’s exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning remicade® (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws.•inlyta (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $28 $30 (9)  international 46 54 (15) (20)worldwide revenues $74 $85 (13) (16)the worldwide operational decline was primarily due to increased competition in developed markets as well as china, partially offset by performance in other emerging markets. •eucrisa (ih):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $26 $9 *  international — — — —worldwide revenues $26 $9 * —the worldwide operational growth was primarily driven by broader prescriber trial and adoption as well as growing patient awareness and interest.eucrisa is approved in the u.s. for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis for patients two years of age and older. the fda approved eucrisa on december 14, 2016, and eucrisa was launched in the u.s. late in the first quarter of 2017. eucrisa is a non-steroidal topical ointment and is the first topical prescription treatment for atopic dermatitis approved in over 10 years.•alliance revenues (ih/eh):  three months ended      % change(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 total oper.u.s. $602 $474 27  international 253 182 39 26worldwide revenues $855 $656 30 27the worldwide operational increase was mainly due to increases in eliquis and xtandi alliance revenues discussed above.74◦bavencio (ih) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. both companies jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-pd-l1 or anti-pd-1 products from this collaboration. bavencio is currently approved in metastatic mcc in the u.s., europe and japan as well as in second line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in the u.s.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13c. segment, geographic and other revenue information: other revenue information for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of the selected products discussed above.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. contingencies and certain commitments for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.product developments—biopharmaceuticalwe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. for additional information about our r&d organization, including the eh r&d organization, our r&d priorities and areas of focus, see the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook—our strategy—description of research and development operations” section of this md&a. a comprehensive update of pfizer’s development pipeline was published as of may 1, 2018 and is available at www.pfizer.com/science/drug-product-pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for some candidates in phase 1 and all candidates from phase 2 through registration.the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedsteglatro (ertugliflozin)an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus, which is being developed in collaboration with merckdecember 2017segluromet (ertugliflozin and metformin)an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are not adequately controlled on a regimen containing ertugliflozin or metformin, or in patients who are already treated with both ertugliflozin and metformin, which is being developed in collaboration with merckdecember 2017steglujan (ertugliflozin and sitagliptin)an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both ertugliflozin and sitagliptin is appropriate, which is being developed in collaboration with merckdecember 2017bosulif (bosutinib)treatment of adult patients with newly-diagnosed chronic phase philadelphia chromosome-positive ph+ cml, which is being developed in collaboration with avilliondecember 2017xeljanz (tofacitinib) and xeljanz xrxeljanz 5 mg twice daily and xeljanz xr extended release 11 mg once daily for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate or other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugsdecember 2017sutent (sunitinib)adjuvant treatment in adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomy (surgical removal of the cancerous kidney)november 2017lyrica (pregabalin)extended-release tablets cv as once-daily therapy for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and the management of post-herpetic neuralgiaoctober 2017mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)treatment of adults with newly diagnosed cd33-positive acute myeloid leukemia (aml), and adults and children 2 years and older with relapsed or refractory cd33-positive amlseptember 2017besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin)treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory cd22-positive b-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemiaaugust 2017bavencio (avelumab)treatment for patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma with disease progression on or after platinum-based therapy, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanymay 201775pending u.s. ndas and supplemental filingsproductproposed indicationdate filed*dacomitinibfirst-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfjapril 2018xtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancermarch 2018lorlatinib (pf-06463922)treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more alk inhibitorsfebruary 2018filgrastim(a)a potential biosimilar to neupogen® (filgrastim)november 2017pf-05280014(b)a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)august 2017xeljanz (tofacitinib)(c)treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitisjuly 2017retacrit(d)a potential biosimilar to epogen® and procrit® (epoetin alfa)february 2015tafamidis meglumine(e)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathyfebruary 2012*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) neupogen® is a registered trademark of amgen, inc.(b) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc. in april 2018, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our biologics license application (bla) for pf-05280014, our proposed biosimilar to trastuzumab, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. the fda highlighted the need for additional technical information, which does not relate to safety or clinical data submitted in the application. we will work with the fda to identify next steps.(c) in march 2018, we announced a positive outcome from the fda’s gastrointestinal drugs advisory committee (gidac) meeting. the gidac met to discuss our supplemental nda for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis. the gidac voted on two dosing questions related to the use of the 10 mg twice-daily (bid) dose beyond the eight week induction period. first, gidac voted unanimously (15-0) in favor of the extension of the use of tofacitinib 10 mg bid from eight to 16 weeks of induction in adult patients who have not achieved adequate therapeutic benefit by week 8. second, the committee voted unanimously (15-0) in favor of 10 mg bid as continuous maintenance treatment for adult patients with an inadequate response, loss of response or intolerance to tumor necrosis factor (tnf) blocker therapy. the third question the gidac voted on related to a post-marketing efficacy study comparing a tofacitinib 10 mg bid continuous dosing regimen versus a regimen of tofacitinib 10 mg bid induction and 5 mg bid as maintenance in this patient population. the gidac voted 8-7 against conducting this study.(d) epogen® is a registered u.s. trademark of amgen inc.; procrit® is a registered u.s. trademark of j&j. in october 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our biologics license application (bla) for retacrit, our proposed biosimilar to epoetin alfa, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. in december 2016, we completed the resubmission of the bla to the fda for retacrit in response to the “complete response” letter. in may 2017, the fda’s oncologic drugs advisory committee (odac) voted to recommend retacrit for approval. in june 2017, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda, relating to matters noted in a warning letter issued in february 2017 following a routine inspection of the company’s facility in mcpherson, kansas in 2016. this facility was listed as the potential manufacturing site in the bla for the proposed epoetin alfa biosimilar. in november 2017, pfizer resubmitted the bla to the fda for retacrit in response to the “complete response” letter. in january 2018, the fda upgraded the status of pfizer’s mcpherson, kansas manufacturing facility to vai based on an october 2017 inspection. the change to vai status lifted the compliance hold that the fda placed on approval of pfizer pending applications, and permits review of the bla for the proposed epoetin alfa biosimilar.(e) in may 2012, the fda’s peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. pfizer initiated study b3461028 in december 2013, a global phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomyopathy, which includes patients with wild type and variant transthyretin. this study has achieved its primary endpoint, and we will work with the fda to identify next steps.76regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)application approved in the eu for treatment of patients age 15 years and above with previously untreated, de novo, cd33-positive acute myeloid leukemia, except acute promyelocytic leukemiaapril 2018—bosulif (bosutinib)application approved in the eu for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed chronic phase philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (ph+ cml), which is being developed in collaboration with avillionapril 2018—dacomitinibfirst-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj—march 2018steglatro (ertugliflozin)approval in the eu as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus:•as monotherapy in patients for whom the use of metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contraindications; and•in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes,which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2018—segluromet (ertugliflozin and metformin)approval in the eu as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus:•in patients not adequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone;•in patients on their maximally tolerated doses of metformin in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes; and•in patients already being treated with the combination of ertugliflozin and metformin as separate tablets, which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2018—steglujan (ertugliflozin and sitagliptin)approval in the eu as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus:•when metformin and/or a sulphonylurea (su) and one of the monocomponents of steglujan do not provide adequate glycaemic control; and •in patients already being treated with the combination of ertugliflozin and sitagliptin as separate tablets, which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2018—xtandi (enzalutamide)application filed in the eu for treatment of non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer—march 2018pf-06439535(a)application filed in the eu for a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)—march 2018xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in the eu for modified release 11mg tablet for rheumatoid arthritis—march 2018lorlatinib (pf-06463922)application filed in the eu for the treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more alk inhibitors—february 2018lorlatinib (pf-06463922)application filed in japan for the treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more alk inhibitor—january 2018besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin)approval in japan for the treatment of relapsed or refractory cd 22- positive acute lymphoblastic leukemiajanuary 2018—xeljanz (tofacitinib)(b)application filed in the eu for treatment of psoriatic arthritis—september 2017ibrance (palbociclib)approval in japan for ibrance in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of hr+, her2- inoperable or recurrent breast cancerseptember 2017—bavencio (avelumab)approval in japan for the treatment of curatively unresectable merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyseptember 2017—bavencio (avelumab)approval in the eu for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyseptember 2017—xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in the eu for the treatment of ulcerative colitis—august 2017pf-06438179(c)application filed in japan for a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)—august 2017pf-05280014(d)application filed in the eu for a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)—july 2017besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin)approval in the eu for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory cd22-positive b-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemiajune 2017—trumenbaapproval in the eu for a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b in individuals 10 years of age and oldermay 2017—xalkori (crizotinib)approval in japan for the treatment of ros1-positive non-small cell lung cancermay 2017—xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in japan for the treatment of ulcerative colitis—may 2017sutent (sunitinib)(e)application filed in the eu for the adjuvant treatment in adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomy—april 2017*for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the ema validated our submissions.(a) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.77(b) in april 2018, the ema’s committee for medicinal products for human use adopted a positive opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorization for xeljanz to include xeljanz in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy.(c) remicade® is a registered trademark of janssen. in february 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of pf-06438179, a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the eea to sandoz, which was a condition to the european commission’s approval of the hospira transaction. we retain commercialization rights to pf-06438179 in all countries outside of the eea.(d) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(e) in february 2018, the ema’s committee for medicinal products for human use issued an opinion recommending against expanding use of sutent to include the adjuvant treatment of adult patients at a high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomy (surgical removal of the cancerous kidney). a re-examination has been requested by pfizer, and we will continue to work closely with the ema.late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductproposed indicationbavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1, in combination with inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor,for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration withmerck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lungcancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)(a)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer,which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of ovarian cancer, which is beingdeveloped in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patientswith urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of thehead and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyibrance (palbociclib)treatment of her2+ advanced breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llcibrance (palbociclib)treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the german breast groupibrance (palbociclib)treatment of hr+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llc, and the austrian breast colorectal cancer study groupxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of non-metastatic high risk hormone-sensitive prostate cancerxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancervyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathy(a) in february 2018, we and our partner merck kgaa, darmstadt, germany, announced that the bavencio phase 3 trial in second-line nsclc did not meet its pre-specified primary endpoint. we are continuing to further evaluate the detailed results.in april 2018, we announced that the independent data monitoring committee for the phase 3 atlas trial evaluating inlyta (axitinib) as adjuvant therapy for patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma (rcc) after nephrectomy recommended stopping the trial at a planned interim analysis due to futility. the recommendation was based on the study failing to demonstrate a clear improvement in the primary endpoint of extending disease-free survival for patients treated with inlyta compared with patients treated with placebo. no new safety signals were observed, and the safety profile was consistent with the known profile of inlyta.new drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateproposed indicationglasdegib (pf-0444913)a smoothened inhibitor for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemialorlatinib (pf-06463922)a next generation alk/ros1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with alk-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancerpf-04965842a janus kinase 1 (jak1) inhibitor for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitispf-06425090a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent clostridium difficile colitispf-05280586(a)a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)pf-06439535(b)a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab) (ex-eu)pf-06410293(c)a potential biosimilar to humira® (adalimumab)rivipansel (gmi-1070)a pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from glycomimetics inc.somatrogon (pf-06836922)a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in children, which is being developed in collaboration with opkosomatrogon (pf-06836922)a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developedin collaboration with opkotalazoparib (mdv3800)an oral parp inhibitor for the treatment of patients with germline brca-mutated advanced breast cancertalazoparib (mdv3800)an oral parp inhibitor for the treatment of metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancertanezumaban anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with lilly(a) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen ma inc.(b) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(c) humira® is a registered trademark of abbvie biotechnology ltd.additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.78costs and expensesthe changes in expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the february 2017 sale of his. the operating results of his are included in our operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations, while operating results for the first quarter of 2018 do not reflect any his global operations.cost of sales  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 % changecost of sales $2,563 $2,468 4as a percentage of revenues 19.9% 19.3%  cost of sales increased 4% in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:•the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $241 million and the unfavorable impact of hedging activity on intercompany inventory of $74 million; and•an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold,partially offset by:•the favorable impact of production variances;•lower volumes driven by:–the sip portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s., as well as –generic competition in developed markets;•the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in the first quarter of 2017; and•the favorable impact of the sale of his global operations (which carried a higher cost of sales than other products) of $36 million.the increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to all of the factors discussed above, as well as the impact of product losses of exclusivity, partially offset by an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales.selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,412 $3,315 3as a percentage of revenues 26.4% 25.9%  si&a expenses increased 3% in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:•additional investment across several of our key products, primarily eucrisa, ibrance, lyrica, prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (pediatric indication) and xeljanz; and•a special, one-time bonus to virtually all pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $108 million, in the aggregate, paid in the first quarter of 2018,partially offset by:•lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives;•the favorable impact of the sale of his global operations of $20 million; and•lower spending on enbrel.research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 %changeresearch and development expenses $1,743 $1,716 2as a percentage of revenues 13.5% 13.4%  79r&d expenses increased 2% in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:•increased costs associated with:–our bavencio collaboration with merck kgaa; and–our phase 3 clinical trials related to the c. difficile vaccine program and our jak1 inhibitor, each of which initiated a phase 3 clinical study in march 2017 and december 2017, respectively, as well as•the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange,partially offset by:•decreased spending for biosimilars; •the impact of our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts; and•the favorable impact of the sale of his global operations.for additional information on cost of sales, si&a and r&d expenses by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.amortization of intangible assets  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 %changeamortization of intangible assets $1,196 $1,186 1as a percentage of revenues 9.3% 9.3%  see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 %changerestructuring (credits)/charges—acquisition-related costs(a) $(8) $8 *restructuring credits—cost reduction initiatives(b) (2) (12) (85)restructuring credits (9) (5) *transaction costs — 12 (100)integration costs 52 77 (31)restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 43 84 (49)net periodic benefit costs(c) 32 74 (56)additional depreciation—asset restructuring 17 14 24total implementation costs 39 31 24costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(d) $131 $202 (35)(a) restructuring (credits)/charges––acquisition-related costs include employee termination costs, exit costs and asset impairments associated with business combinations. credits for the first quarter of 2018 were primarily associated with lower exit costs related to our acquisition of hospira. restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs for the three months ended april 2, 2017 were primarily related to our acquisitions of medivation and anacor. (b) restructuring credits––cost reduction initiatives relate to employee termination costs, exit costs and asset impairments not associated with acquisitions. for the first quarter of 2018, the credits are mostly related to reserve releases for cost-reduction programs, partially offset by exit costs. for the first quarter of 2017, the credits are mostly related to reserve releases for cost-reduction programs, partially offset by asset write downs.(c) in the three months ended april 1, 2018, represents the net pension curtailments and settlements other than service costs reclassified from employee terminations and integration costs to other (income)/deductions––net upon the adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018. in the three months ended april 2, 2017, composed of (i) $48 million, representing the net pension curtailments and settlements other than service costs reclassified to other (income)/deductions––net upon the retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018 and (ii) $25 million, representing the net periodic benefit costs, excluding service costs, reclassified to other (income)/deductions––net as a result of the retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018. these costs represent accelerated amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs upon the settlement of the remaining obligation associated with the hospira u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plan. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.(d) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses, selling, informational and administrative expenses and/or other 80(income)/deductions––net as appropriate. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.in connection with our acquisition of hospira, we are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. we expect to achieve $1 billion of annual cost savings by the end of 2018 in connection with the hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million, and have achieved approximately $900 million of cost savings through april 1, 2018. the one-time costs to generate the savings are expected to be approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million associated with the return of acquired ipr&d rights), and the majority of these costs are expected to be incurred within the three-year period post-acquisition.new cost-reduction/productivity initiatives—2017 through 2019 activitiesas a result of the evaluation performed in connection with our decision in september 2016 to not pursue, at that time, splitting ih and eh into two separate publicly-traded companies, we identified new opportunities to potentially achieve greater optimization and efficiency to become more competitive in our business. therefore, in early 2017, we initiated new enterprise-wide cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, which we expect to substantially complete by the end of 2019. these initiatives encompass all areas of our cost base and include further centralization of our corporate and platform functions and optimization of our manufacturing plant network to support ih and eh products and pipelines, as well as activities in other areas where opportunities are identified. the action plans related to these new initiatives are underway and, in order to achieve targeted savings of approximately $1.4 billion by 2020, we expect to incur total costs of approximately $1.1 billion over the three-year period, 2017-2019. of this amount, we expect about 80% to be manufacturing operations related and we expect about 20% of the total charges will be non-cash. for additional information about these programs and expected and actual total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. the expected cost savings in 2018 associated with these activities are reflected in our 2018 financial guidance.in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.other (income)/deductions—net  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 %changeother (income)/deductions––net $(178) $60 **calculation not meaningful.for information about the components of other (income)/deductions—net, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.provision for taxes on income  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 %changeprovision for taxes on income $556 $821 (32)effective tax rate on continuing operations 13.5% 20.8%  for information about our effective tax rate and the events and circumstances contributing to the changes between periods, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.81non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. because adjusted income is an important internal measurement for pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income, certain components of adjusted income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (otc) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. also, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2017 financial report for additional information. similarly, we have defined the adjusted income components as cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of intangible assets and other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. we have defined adjusted diluted earnings per share as earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure, the adjusted income component measures and the adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for u.s. gaap net income, u.s. gaap net income components or u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share. the following are examples of how the adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2017 financial report for additional information.adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-gaap financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. because of their non-standardized definitions, adjusted income and its components (unlike u.s. gaap net income and its components) and adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. a limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a publicly-traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans.see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the first quarter of 2018 and 2017 below.purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with wyeth (acquired in 2009), hospira (acquired in 2015), anacor (acquired in june 2016) and medivation (acquired in september 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.82acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. for example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation, such as the tcja discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5a. tax matters: taxes on income from continuing operations; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. contingencies and certain commitments: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.reconciliations of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  three months ended april 1, 2018in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $12,906 $— $— $— $— $12,906cost of sales 2,563 (1) (3) — (23) 2,536selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,412 — — — (126) 3,286research and development expenses 1,743 1 — — (6) 1,739amortization of intangible assets 1,196 (1,126) — — — 71restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 43 — (45) — 2 —other (income)/deductions––net (178) (96) — — (47) (322)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 4,127 1,221 48 — 201 5,597provision for taxes on income(b) 556 239 8 — 117 920income from continuing operations 3,571 982 40 — 84 4,677discontinued operations––net of tax (1) — — 1 — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 3,561 982 40 1 84 4,668earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.59 0.16 0.01 — 0.01 0.77see end of tables for notes (a) and (b).83   three months ended april 2, 2017in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $12,779 $— $— $— $— $12,779cost of sales 2,468 (7) (3) — (26) 2,432selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,315 (6) — — (14) 3,295research and development expenses 1,716 4 — — (7) 1,713amortization of intangible assets 1,186 (1,151) — — — 35restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 84 — (96) — 12 —other (income)/deductions––net 60 (13) (25) — (122) (100)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,951 1,172 124 — 157 5,404provision for taxes on income(b) 821 340 43 — (1) 1,204income from continuing operations 3,130 832 82 — 157 4,201discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 3,121 832 82 — 157 4,192earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.51 0.14 0.01 — 0.03 0.69(a) for details of adjustments, see “details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income” below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 16.4% in the first quarter of 2018, compared with 22.3% in the first quarter of 2017. the decrease was primarily due to tax benefits associated with the enactment of the tcja, as well as a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business.  84details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017purchase accounting adjustments    amortization, depreciation and other(a) $1,221 $1,165cost of sales 1 7total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 1,221 1,172income taxes(b) (239) (340)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 982 832acquisition-related costs    restructuring (credits)/charges(c) (8) 8transaction costs(c) — 12integration costs(c) 52 77net periodic benefit costs other than service costs(d) — 25additional depreciation––asset restructuring(e) 3 3total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 48 124income taxes(f) (8) (43)total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 40 82discontinued operations    total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc.(g) 1 —certain significant items    restructuring credits(h) (2) (12)implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(i) 53 42certain legal matters, net(j) (19) 8loss on sale of his net assets(j) 3 37business and legal entity alignment costs(j) 3 21other(k) 163 61total certain significant items––pre-tax 201 157income taxes(l) (117) 1total certain significant items––net of tax 84 157total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $1,107 $1,071(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate.(c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs. restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. credits for the first quarter of 2018 were primarily associated with lower exit costs related to our acquisition of hospira. in the first quarter of 2017, restructuring charges were primarily related to our acquisitions of medivation and anacor. transaction costs represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.(d) represents the net periodic benefit costs, excluding service costs, reclassified to other (income)/deductions––net as a result of the retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards. these costs represent accelerated amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs upon the settlement of the remaining obligation associated with the hospira u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plan.(e) included in cost of sales. represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions.(f) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate.(g) included in discontinued operations––net of tax.(h) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions. included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the first quarter of 2018, the credits are mostly related to 85reserve releases for cost-reduction programs, partially offset by exit costs. for the first quarter of 2017, the credits are mostly related to reserve releases for cost-reduction programs, partially offset by asset write downs.(i) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended april 1, 2018, included in cost of sales ($30 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($17 million) and research and development expenses ($6 million). for the three months ended april 2, 2017, included in cost of sales ($26 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($9 million) and research and development expenses ($7 million). (j) included in other (income)/deductions—net (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net).(k) for the three months ended april 1, 2018, included in cost of sales ($7 million income) selling, informational and administrative expenses ($109 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($61 million) and primarily includes $108 million, in the aggregate, for a special, one-time bonus paid to virtually all pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, which was one of several actions taken by us after evaluating the expected positive net impact of the december 2017 enactment of the tcja on us. for the three months ended april 2, 2017, included in selling, informational and administrative expenses ($5 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($56 million).(l) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the first quarter of 2018 was favorably impacted by the december 2017 enactment of the tcja, primarily related to certain tax initiatives associated with the lower u.s. tax rate as a result of the tcja. the first quarter of 2017 was unfavorably impacted by the taxes on an incremental charge to amounts previously recorded to write down the his net assets to fair value less costs to sell related to the sale of his net assets to icu medical. given the significant changes resulting from and complexities associated with the tcja, the estimated financial impacts recorded in 2017 are provisional and are subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the tcja, which could result in changes to these estimates during 2018. under guidance issued by the staff of the sec, we expect to finalize our accounting related to the tax effects of the tcja on deferred taxes, valuation allowances, state tax considerations, the repatriation tax liability, global intangible low-taxed income, and any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries during 2018 as we complete our analysis, computations and assertions. it is possible that others, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. we will revise these estimates during 2018 as we gather additional information to complete our tax returns and as any interpretation or clarification of the tcja occurs through legislation, u.s. treasury actions or other means.analysis of operating segment informationthe following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments—the ih segment and the eh segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information, as well as the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” section of this md&a.as described in the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1a.basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: basis of presentation, the sale of his impacted our results of operations in 2017.the following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended april 1, 2018(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $7,829 $5,077 $— $12,906 $— $12,906cost of sales 987 1,436 113 2,536 27 2,563% of revenue 12.6%28.3%*19.7%*19.9%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,552 628 1,106 3,286 126 3,412research and development expenses 587 221 931 1,739 4 1,743amortization of intangible assets 51 19 — 71 1,126 1,196restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 43 43other (income)/deductions––net (279) (15) (28) (322) 144 (178)income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $4,930 $2,788 $(2,121) $5,597 $(1,470) $4,127 86  three months ended april 2, 2017(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $7,415 $5,364 $— $12,779 $— $12,779cost of sales 849 1,450 133 2,432 36 2,468% of revenue 11.4%27.0%*19.0%*19.3%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,425 677 1,193 3,295 20 3,315research and development expenses 519 253 941 1,713 3 1,716amortization of intangible assets 26 9 — 35 1,151 1,186restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 84 84other (income)/deductions––net (151) (64) 115 (100) 161 60income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $4,747 $3,039 $(2,382) $5,404 $(1,453) $3,951see end of tables for notes (a) through (d).(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment.the following organizational change impacted our operating segments in 2018:effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain costs for pfizer’s stratco group, which were previously reported in the operating results of our operating segments and corporate, are reported in other unallocated. stratco costs primarily include headcount, vendor costs and data costs largely in support of pfizer’s commercial operations. the majority of the stratco costs reflect additional amounts that our operating segments may have generally incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. the reporting change was made to streamline accountability and speed decision making. in the first quarter of 2017, we reclassified approximately $98 million of costs from ih, approximately $33 million of costs from eh and approximately $9 million of costs from corporate to other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation.(b) other comprises the costs included in our adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following:  three months ended april 1, 2018  other business activities   (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 60 53 113selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 942 163 1,106research and development expenses 553 190 172 16 931amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (17) (1) (21) 12 (28)loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(536) $(189) $(1,153) $(244) $(2,121)   three months ended april 2, 2017  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — (27) 159 133selling, informational and administrative expenses — (1) 1,054 140 1,193research and development expenses 528 182 219 11 941amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (21) (2) 89 49 115loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(508) $(180) $(1,335) $(359) $(2,382)(i) wrd—the r&d expenses managed by our wrd organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our ih business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the ih segment via the gpd organization for possible clinical and commercial development. r&d spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. the wrd organization also has responsibility for certain 87science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, including eh r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities.(ii) gpd––the costs associated with our gpd organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects.(iii) corporate––the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance and worldwide procurement), the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations, as well as certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments. effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain costs for stratco, which were previously reported in the operating results of our operating segments and corporate, are reported in other unallocated. for additional information, see note (iv) below. we recognized a $29 million loss in the first quarter of 2018 as an offset to cost of sales primarily related to euro-denominated forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated forecasted intercompany inventory sales. in the first quarter of 2017, we recognized a $45 million gain as an offset to cost of sales related to euro, japanese yen and u.k. pound-denominated forward-exchange contracts designated as hedges of foreign exchange-denominated intercompany sales. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7f. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.(iv) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs (which include manufacturing variances associated with production). in connection with the stratco reporting change, in the first quarter of 2017, we reclassified approximately $98 million of costs from ih, approximately $33 million of costs from eh and approximately $9 million of costs from corporate to other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation.for information purposes only, the following tables present reconciliations of our segment operating results to segment operating results including estimated other costs generally associated with each segment. while we do not manage our segments or have performance goals under such an allocated manner, we believe that some investors may find this information useful in their analyses. the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. for information purposes only, for the first quarter of 2018, we estimate that other costs, as described above, for combined wrd and gpd costs of $725 million, and combined corporate and other unallocated costs of $1.3 billion after excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $241 million for the first quarter of 2018 in other (income)/deductions––net); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $122 million for the first quarter of 2018 in other (income)/deductions––net), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows:three months ended april 1, 2018estimated other costs associated with ih(ii)(millions of dollars)innovative health non-gaap adjusted(i), (iii)estimated wrd/gpd(ii)estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii)innovative health with estimated other costs associated withinnovative healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues$7,829$—$—$7,829cost of sales987—9995selling, informational and administrative expenses1,552—6832,235research and development expenses5877351561,478amortization of intangible assets51——51restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs————other (income)/deductions––net(279)(19)(100)(398)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income4,930(716)(747)3,46788three months ended april 1, 2018estimated other costs associated with eh(ii)(millions of dollars)essential healthnon-gaap adjusted(i), (iii)estimated wrd/gpd(ii)estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii)essential health with estimated other costs associated withessential healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues$5,077$—$—$5,077cost of sales1,436—1041,541selling, informational and administrative expenses628—4231,050research and development expenses221832261amortization of intangible assets19——19restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs————other (income)/deductions––net(15)—(28)(43)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income2,788(8)(531)2,249(i) amount represents the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. see note (a) above for more information.(ii) represents costs not assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. for a description of these other costs and business activities, see note (b) above.•wrd/gpd––the information provided for wrd and gpd was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the r&d projects associated with each operating segment. •corporate/other unallocated––the information provided for corporate and other unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from research and development and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification and estimates. management believes that the allocations of corporate and other unallocated costs are reasonable.the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented.(iii) see note (c) below for an explanation of our non-gaap adjusted financial measure.(c) see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a for a definition of these “adjusted income” components.(d) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as restructuring or legal charges), that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.89first quarter of 2018 vs. first quarter of 2017innovative health operating segmentrevenuesih revenues increased $414 million, or 6%, to $7.8 billion, reflecting the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $222 million, or 3%, and an operational increase of $192 million, or 3%.the following provides an analysis of the increase in ih revenues:(millions of dollars)  ih revenues, for the three months ended april 2, 2017 $7,415   operational growth/(decline):  continued growth from key brands including ibrance, eliquis and xeljanz (globally) 484negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017 and the resulting shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues from ih to eh at the beginning of 2018 (249)lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition (122)decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues. international revenues increased, compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to the favorable impact of the inclusion of prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult indication as well as higher volumes for the pediatric indication resulting from the second-quarter 2017 launch of prevenar 13 in china and increased shipments associated with gavi, the vaccine alliance, partially offset by the overall unfavorable impact of timing associated with government purchases in certain international markets. u.s. revenues decreased, compared to the prior-year quarter, primarily due to lower government purchases for the pediatric indication due to a change in ordering patterns and, to a lesser extent, the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity  (41)other operational factors, net 120operational growth, net 192   favorable impact of foreign exchange 222ih revenues increase 414ih revenues, for the three months ended april 1, 2018 $7,829total ih revenues from emerging markets increased $225 million, or 24%, to $1.2 billion from $0.9 billion, reflecting 20% operational growth. foreign exchange had a favorable impact of 4% on total ih revenues from emerging markets.costs and expenses•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 1.2 percentage points, primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold, partially offset by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales.•the increase in cost of sales of 16% was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold, and a favorable change in product mix.•the increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 9% was primarily driven by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily eucrisa, ibrance, lyrica, prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (pediatric indication) and xeljanz, partially offset by lower spending on enbrel.•the increase in research and development expenses of 13% primarily reflects increased costs associated with:◦our bavencio collaboration with merck kgaa; and◦our phase 3 clinical trials related to the c. difficile vaccine program and our jak1 inhibitor, each of which initiated a phase 3 clinical study in march 2017 and december 2017, respectively.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects: ◦an increase in milestone payments, primarily due to $75 million of milestone income related to the first dosing of a patient in a phase 3 clinical trial of a compound out-licensed by us for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and a $37 million increase in milestone income from merck in conjunction with the approval of ertugliflozin in the eu; and◦a $16 million increase in dividend income from our investment in viiv.90essential health operating segmentrevenueseh revenues decreased $287 million, or 5%, to $5.1 billion, reflecting an operational decrease of $494 million, or 9%, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $207 million, or 4%. the following provides an analysis of the decrease in eh revenues:(millions of dollars)eh revenues, for the three months ended april 2, 2017$5,364other operational growth/(decline):decline from the sip portfolio, primarily due to continued legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s.(236)decline from peri-loe products (excluding viagra eh, which was impacted by the shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues to eh at the beginning of 2018), driven by expected declines in lyrica in developed europe and pristiq in the u.s. due to generic competition(212)impact on financial results for the sale of his in february 2017. the first quarter of 2018 does not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the same period in 2017(97)decline in the lep portfolio, primarily due to generic competition in developed markets (83)positive impact of viagra, mostly driven by the shift in the reporting of u.s. and canada viagra revenues from ih to eh at the beginning of 2018 (due to the loss of exclusivity of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017), partially offset by lower revenues in developed europe markets (previously reported in eh) 92growth from biosimilars, primarily from inflectra in certain channels in the u.s. as well as in developed europe56other operational factors, net(13)operational decline, net(494)favorable impact of foreign exchange207eh revenues decrease(287)eh revenues, for the three months ended april 1, 2018$5,077total eh revenues from emerging markets increased $286 million, or 18%, to $1.9 billion from $1.6 billion, reflecting 12% operational growth, primarily driven by 15% operational growth from the lep portfolio and 17% operational growth from the sip portfolio, partially offset by an 8% operational decline from the peri-loe products portfolio. foreign exchange had a favorable impact of 6% on total eh revenues from emerging markets.costs and expensesthe changes in eh expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the february 2017 sale of his. the operating results of his are included in eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for eh for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations, while financial results for eh for the first quarter of 2018 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 1.3 percentage points, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and the impact of product losses of exclusivity, partially offset by lower volumes driven by the sip portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s., and generic competition in developed markets, as well as the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in the first quarter of 2017.•the decrease in cost of sales of 1% was primarily due to:◦lower volumes driven by:– the sip portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s., as well as – generic competition in developed markets;◦the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in the first quarter of 2017; and◦the favorable impact of the sale of his, which had a higher cost of sales than the other eh products,partially offset by:◦the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.91•selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 7% mainly due to lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and the favorable impact of the sale of his, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. •research and development expenses decreased 13% primarily due to decreased spending for biosimilars and the favorable impact of the sale of his.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and the non-recurrence of a gain on the redemption of an acquired bond in the first quarter of 2017.selected balance sheet information by operating segmentfor information purposes only, the following table contains selected balance sheet information by operating segment, reflecting the more meaningful operating accounts at the segment level. this information has been developed for annual disclosure purposes only. although we manage our assets and liabilities on a total company basis, not by operating segment, as many of our operating assets are shared or commingled, we believe that some investors may find this information useful.  as of december 31, 2017(millions of dollars) ih(a), (b) eh(a), (b) corporate/unallocated(a), (c) total companytrade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts $4,769 $3,451 $— $8,221inventories 2,702 4,876 — 7,578trade accounts payable 2,989 1,623 44 4,656other selected balance sheet information:        noncurrent inventories(d) 46 637 — 683(a) the selected balance sheet information is presented as of december 31, 2017 after all significant intercompany balances and transactions between legal entities have been eliminated. for subsidiaries operating outside the u.s., the selected balance sheet information is included as of november 30, 2017.the selected balance sheet information by operating segment has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of pfizer and does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had either of the operating segments been managed as a standalone company as of, or prior to, december 31, 2017 and, additionally, does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had separate financial statements been prepared for either of the operating segments on a carve-out basis as of december 31, 2017.management believes that the selected balance sheet information by operating segment is reasonable. (b) the selected balance sheet information for each operating segment has been developed as follows:•trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts––significantly all amounts were derived using specific identification methods.•inventories (including noncurrent portion)––these amounts were derived using specific identification methods and with respect to shared inventory components, these amounts were derived using proportional allocation methods based on associated manufacturing costs and related product-specific inventory.•trade accounts payable––the amounts were derived using specific identification methods and using proportional allocation methods based on associated manufacturing costs, certain research and development costs or other operating costs, as appropriate.(c) corporate/unallocated includes a portion of the following line item:•trade accounts payable––the portion of this account included as corporate/unallocated primarily relates to liabilities associated with specific legal entities not identified with operating segments. (d) included in other noncurrent assets.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomechanges in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the first quarter of 2018 reflect the following: •for foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, japanese yen, u.k. pound and chinese renminbi.•for unrealized holding losses on derivative financial instruments, net and unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities, net, reflect the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of amounts into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies––adoption of new accounting standards and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for benefit plans: actuarial gains, net, primarily reflects (i) a $142 million reduction in our u.s. consolidated non-qualified plan liability due to an interim re-measurement, (ii) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in other comprehensive income and, to a lesser extent, (iii) settlement activity offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for benefit plans: prior service (costs)/credits and other, net, reflects the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) amortization of changes in prior service costs and credits previously recognized in other comprehensive income and (ii) curtailment activity. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.92•for tax provision on other comprehensive (loss)/income, reflects the reclassification of the stranded tax amounts related to the tcja from aoci to retained earnings. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies––adoption of new accounting standards and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5d. tax provision on other comprehensive (loss)/income.analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.for information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.for information related to changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 6. accumulated other comprehensive loss, excluding noncontrolling interests. the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of april 1, 2018, compared to december 31, 2017, generally reflect, among other things, measurement period adjustments related to the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards in the first quarter of 2018. the following explanations exclude the impact of the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, foreign exchange and the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards in the first quarter of 2018 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards and note 2a. acquisition, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, licensing arrangement and collaborative arrangements: acquisition for additional information).•for trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business.•for inventories, the change reflects the increases for certain products to meet targeted levels in the normal course of business, including supply recovery and inventory build for new product launches. •for other current assets, the change reflects a decrease in value added tax receivables due to the receipt of annual refunds, the receipt of a milestone payment related to the first marketing authorization for ertugliflozin, and a decrease in receivables associated with derivative financial instruments, partially offset by a milestone receivable earned in conjunction with the approval of ertugliflozin in the eu.•for pp&e, the change primarily reflects depreciation during the period, partially offset by capital additions in the normal course of business.•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change primarily reflects amortization and impairments for the period.•for other noncurrent assets, the change reflects a decrease in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments and reduction in inventory expected to be sold in a period greater than twelve months, primarily due to demand. •for trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business.•for accrued compensation and related items, the decrease reflects normal bonus payments made to employees and the timing of payments in the normal course of business, partially offset by current year accruals. •for other current liabilities, the change reflects a decrease in liabilities associated with:◦payments for the current portion of obligations recorded in connection with the u.s. approval of bosulif, the japan approval of xalkori, and the eu and u.s. approvals of besponsa; ◦payments for contingent consideration obligations;◦payments to settle certain legal and product liability obligations;◦payments for restructuring activities; and◦payments and accruals in the normal course of business,93partially offset by increases related to:◦reclassifications from noncurrent liabilities;◦payables related to derivative financial instruments; and◦accrued interest due to timing of payments.•for pension benefit obligations, net, the decrease primarily reflects a voluntary pension contribution, an interim re-measurement in a u.s. non-qualified plan, and direct employer benefit payments. •for other noncurrent liabilities, the change reflects a decrease in liabilities associated with:◦reclassifications to current liabilities, partially offset by:◦an increase in payables, associated with derivative financial instruments; and◦a change in the fair value of contingent consideration. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.•for treasury stock, the change reflects $4.0 billion paid to citibank in march 2018 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement as well as open market share repurchases. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12c. contingencies and certain commitments: certain commitments for additional information.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows   three months ended  (millions of dollars) april 1, 2018 april 2, 2017 %changecash provided by/(used in):      operating activities $1,983 $1,584 25investing activities 9,667 4,768 *financing activities (10,720) (4,907) *effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents 55 21 *net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents $985 $1,465 (33)*calculation not meaningful.in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $2.0 billion in the first three months of 2018, compared to $1.6 billion in the same period in 2017. the increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business, as well as a decrease in benefit plan contributions.in the first three months of 2018, the change in the line item other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items:•unrealized net gains on equity securities resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard on january 1, 2018 related to financial assets and liabilities (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards); and•an increase in dividends received from our investment in viiv reclassified from operating to investing activities,partially offset by:•a decrease in gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment; and•a decrease in realized gains from sales of equity and debt securities.in the first three months of 2018 and 2017, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and noncurrent liabilities.for additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” in this md&a. 94investing activitiesour net cash provided by investing activities was $9.7 billion in the first three months of 2018, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $4.8 billion in the same period in 2017. the increase in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to:•an increase in net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $4.6 billion in 2018 for cash needs; and•a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $585 million due to the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business in the first quarter of 2017 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisition, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, licensing arrangement and collaborative arrangements: acquisition).financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $10.7 billion in the first three months of 2018, compared to $4.9 billion in the same period in 2017. the increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•the issuance of long-term debt of $5.3 billion in the first three months of 2017, with no corresponding issuance of debt in the first three months of 2018; and•higher purchases of common stock of $1.1 billion, partially offset by: •lower repayments on long-term debt of $898 million.analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. we continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. we target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. for example, we follow up in an effort to ensure timely collections on accounts receivable in all our places of business. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our r&d activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;•share repurchases;•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both s&p and moody’s. see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities.95selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) april 1, 2018 december 31, 2017selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $2,302 $1,342short-term investments(a) 9,119 18,650long-term investments(a) 6,945 7,015  18,365 27,007debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 9,010 9,953long-term debt 31,831 33,538  40,841 43,491selected net financial liabilities(b) $(22,476) $(16,484)     working capital(c) $7,470 $10,714ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.27:1 1.35:1total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity per common share(d) $11.97 $11.93(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) the increase in selected net financial liabilities was primarily driven by the decrease in short-term investments used for cash needs, partially offset by the net repayment of long-term debt and short-term borrowings. we retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high-quality financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. both moody’s and s&p rating agencies maintained our strong investment-grade corporate debt rating subsequent to the acquisitions of medivation and anacor. for additional information, see the “credit ratings” section of this md&a.(c) the decrease in working capital was primarily due to:•a decrease in short-term investments mainly driven by the financing requirements for share repurchase activities, dividend payments, capital expenditures and debt repayment, partially offset by operating cash flow generation, cash from employee stock option exercises and reclassification of long-term to short-term investments,partially offset by:•the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business;•a decrease in short-term borrowings as a result of repayments of commercial paper; •an increase in inventory related to increases for certain products to meet targeted levels in the normal course of business, including supply recovery and inventory build for new product launches; and•the net impact of foreign currency exchange.(d) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock).for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.domestic and international selected financial assetsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our selected financial assets are held internationally. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). given the recent changes in tax law under the tcja, which includes transitioning u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimated repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries for which we plan to elect payment over eight years through 2026. these changes will also allow us to more easily access our selected financial assets globally. as a result of the enactment of the tcja, we expect to repatriate the majority of our cash held internationally in 2018.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.96the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debtdate of last rating change rating rating moody’s(a) p-1 a1 october 2009s&p(b) a-1+ aa october 2009(a) in september 2016, moody’s updated their credit outlook from negative outlook to stable.(b) in april 2016, s&p updated their credit outlook from negative watch to stable.debt capacity––lines of creditwe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we typically maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. as of april 1, 2018, we had access to $7.8 billion of lines of credit, of which $708 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $7.7 billion were unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.0 billion at our request under our revolving credit facility expiring in 2022, and may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.global economic conditions––generalthe global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. for additional information see “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our operating environment––the global economic environment” section in this md&a.global economic conditions––venezuela operationsour venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. we used the venezuelan bolivar dicom rate of 29,000 as our best estimate to revalue our venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets. the current dicom rate is 70,000. future actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. we have in venezuela a few net monetary assets and $47 million of non-monetary assets, and $11 million of deferred foreign exchange losses reported in the balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive loss––foreign currency translation adjustments at february 25, 2018, our international quarter-end.off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses and other transactions, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to events and activities prior to or following a transaction. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we may be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnification obligations generally are subject to various restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of april 1, 2018, the estimated fair value of our indemnity obligations was not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreementsin december 2015, the board of directors authorized an $11 billion share repurchase program, to be utilized over time (the 2015 program), and share repurchases commenced thereunder in the first quarter of 2017. in december 2017, the board of directors authorized an additional $10 billion share repurchase program, to be utilized over time (the 2017 program).97on march 12, 2018, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank to repurchase $4.0 billion of our common stock. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. contingencies and certain commitments and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q.the following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreements:  three months ended(shares in millions, dollars in billions) april 1,2018(a) april 2,2017(b)shares of common stock purchased 145 126cost of purchase $6.1 $5.0(a) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank, as well as other share repurchases. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. contingencies and certain commitments and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q.(b) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on february 2, 2017. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 12. equity in our 2017 financial report.at april 1, 2018, our remaining share-purchase authorization under the 2015 and 2017 programs was approximately $10.3 billion.dividends on common stockin april 2018, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.34 per share, payable on june 1, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on may 11, 2018.98new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of apri1 1, 2018standard/description effective date effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin february 2018, the fasb issued technical corrections and improvements relating to the guidance on recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. july 2, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, we do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in february 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for leases. the new asu provides guidance for both lessee and lessor accounting models. among other things, the new guidance requires that a right of use asset and a lease liability be recognized for leases with a duration of greater than one year. january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this new guidance. we anticipate recognition of at least $2 billion of additional assets and corresponding liabilities on our balance sheet. we have also assessed the potential impact of embedded leases on our consolidated financial statements, given our manufacturing outsourcing, service arrangements and other agreements. in connection with this guidance we are currently designing new global processes and technological solutions to provide the appropriate financial accounting and disclosure data. we continue to monitor changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the fasb, which may impact our conclusions.in march 2017, the fasb issued new guidance that shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium. the new guidance requires the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. january 1, 2019. early application is permitted, including in interim periods, so long as any adjustments are reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period in which the guidance is applied. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, we do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in july 2017, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, and accounting for certain financial instruments with down round features (a feature in a financial instrument that reduces the strike price of an issued financial instrument if the issuer sells shares of its stock for an amount less than the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument or issues an equity-linked financial instrument with a strike price below the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument). january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we do not have any financial instruments with features subject to this standard. 99standard/description effective date effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin june 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments. the new guidance replaces the probable initial recognition threshold for incurred loss estimates in current gaap with a methodology that reflects expected credit loss estimates. january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted as of fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. this standard includes our financial instruments, such as accounts receivable, and investments that are generally of high credit quality.previously, when credit losses were measured under gaap, an entity generally only considered past events and current conditions in measuring the incurred loss.the new guidance requires us to identify, analyze, document and support new methodologies for quantifying expected credit loss estimates for our financial instruments, using information such as historical experience and current economic environmental conditions, plus the use of reasonable supportable forecast information.in january 2017, the fasb issued new guidance for goodwill impairment testing. the new guidance eliminates the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. under the new guidance the goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, although it cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, we do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.100forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, the benefits expected from our acquisitions and other business development activities, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, the disposition of the his net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the expected impact of the recent hurricanes in puerto rico set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our business––impact of recent hurricanes in puerto rico” section of this md&a, the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our hospira manufacturing facilities set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our business––product manufacturing” section of this md&a, the anticipated timeframe for any decision regarding strategic alternatives for pfizer consumer healthcare set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a, our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––the global economic environment” and the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” sections of this md&a, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2018” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives set forth in the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, the benefits expected from our business development transactions, the anticipated product performance set forth in the “revenues and product developments—revenues—selected product discussion” section of this md&a, the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to our pension and postretirement plans during 2018 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans and the plans related to the repatriation of the majority of our cash held internationally set forth in the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources—selected measures of liquidity and capital resources—domestic and international selected financial assets” section of this md&a. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products; and uncertainties regarding our ability to address the comments received by us from regulatory authorities such as the fda and the ema with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of those authorities;•the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;•risks associated with preliminary, early stage or interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which preliminary, early stage or interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the preliminary, early stage or interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication;•the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions;101•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;•the implementation by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•risks related to our ability to develop and launch biosimilars, including risks associated with “at risk” launches, defined as the marketing of a product by pfizer before the final resolution of litigation (including any appeals) brought by a third party alleging that such marketing would infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party;•the ability to meet competition from generic, branded and biosimilar products after the loss or expiration of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;•difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including delays caused by natural events, such as hurricanes; supply shortages at our facilities; and legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, debarment, injunctions or voluntary recall of a product;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products;•the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented;• the impact of any u.s. healthcare reform or legislation, including any replacement, repeal, modification or invalidation of some or all of the provisions of the u.s. patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action and/or policy efforts affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines, manufacturer prices and/or price increases that could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses and settlement costs;•the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, as well as tax issues;•the risk that our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis, or any patent-term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all;102•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of the recently passed tcja;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesale distributors, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;•the end result of any negotiations between the u.k. government and the eu regarding the terms of the u.k.’s exit from the eu, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products;•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•further clarifications and/or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, in the u.s. and other countries;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate; and the risks related to volatility of our income due to changes in the market value of equity investments;•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; •the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items;•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives and of the internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure;•the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; •risks related to internal control over financial reporting; •risks and uncertainties related to our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions, including the possibility that expected cost savings related to the acquisition of hospira and accretion related to the acquisitions of hospira, anacor and medivation will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transactions making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; risks related to our ability to grow revenues for xtandi and expand xtandi into the non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer setting; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities; and•risks and uncertainties related to our evaluation of strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alternatives we may pursue for our consumer healthcare business, the potential for disruption to our business and diversion of management’s attention from other aspects of our business, the possibility that such strategic alternatives will not be completed on terms that are advantageous to pfizer; the possibility that we may be unable to realize a higher value for pfizer consumer healthcare through strategic alternatives; and unknown liabilities.103we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects.our 2017 form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. reference is also made to part ii, item 1a, “risk factors,” of this quarterly report on form 10-q. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. the selected balance sheet information by operating segment has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of pfizer and does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had any of the operating segments been managed as a standalone company as of, or prior to, december 31, 2017 and, additionally, does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had separate financial statements been prepared for any of the operating segments on a carve-out basis as of december 31, 2017.this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.financial risk managementinterest rate riskwith respect to our investments, we strive to maintain a predominantly floating–rate basis position, but our strategy may change based on prevailing market conditions. we currently borrow primarily on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. historically, we strove to borrow primarily on a floating-rate basis; but in recent years we borrowed on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. from time to time, depending on market conditions, we will change the profile of our outstanding debt by entering into derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps.legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. contingencies and certain commitments: legal proceedings in part i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.104