item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsintroductionsee the glossary of defined terms at the beginning of this quarterly report on form 10-q for terms used throughout this md&a. our md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:●overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookbeginning on page 48 this section provides information about the following: our business; our performance during the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 and 2016; our operating environment; the global economic environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2017. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomebeginning on page 61 this section includes a revenues overview section as well as the following sub-sections:  ○  revenues - major productsbeginning on page 65 this sub-section provides revenue information for several of our major biopharmaceutical products.  ○  revenues - selected product discussionbeginning on page 66 this sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products.  ○  product developments - biopharmaceuticalbeginning on page 70 this sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.  ○  costs and expensesbeginning on page 74 this sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.  ○  provision for taxes on incomebeginning on page 77 this sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.  ○  non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)beginning on page 77 this sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. ●analysis of operating segment informationbeginning on page 83 this section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomebeginning on page 91 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsbeginning on page 91 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flowsbeginning on page 93 this section provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first nine months of 2017 and 2016. ●analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourcesbeginning on page 94 this section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of october 1, 2017 and december 31, 2016, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of october 1, 2017 and december 31, 2016. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer’s future activities. ●new accounting standardsbeginning on page 98 this section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. ●forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsbeginning on page 102 this section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a, relating to, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and products supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. also included in this section is a discussion of legal proceedings and contingencies. certain amounts in our md&a may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.46the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %changerevenues $13,168 $13,045 1 $38,843 $39,196 (1)             cost of sales(a) 2,847 3,085 (8) 7,980 9,111 (12)% of revenues 21.6% 23.6%   20.5% 23.2%               selling, informational and administrative expenses(a) 3,500 3,559 (2) 10,233 10,414 (2)% of revenues 26.6% 27.3%   26.3% 26.6%               research and development expenses(a) 1,859 1,881 (1) 5,346 5,360 —% of revenues 14.1% 14.4%   13.8% 13.7%               amortization of intangible assets 1,177 968 22 3,571 2,934 22% of revenues 8.9% 7.4%   9.2% 7.5%               restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 149 531 (72) 377 988 (62)% of revenues 1.1% 4.1%   1.0% 2.5%               other (income)/deductions––net 51 1,417 (96) (16) 2,815 *income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,585 1,604 * 11,351 7,575 50% of revenues 27.2% 12.3%   29.2% 19.3%               provision for taxes on income(b) 727 249 * 2,287 1,109 *effective tax rate 20.3% 15.5%   20.1% 14.6%               income from continuing operations(b) 2,858 1,355 * 9,064 6,465 40% of revenues 21.7% 10.4%   23.3% 16.5%               discontinued operations––net of tax — — — 1 — *             net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 2,858 1,355 * 9,066 6,465 40% of revenues 21.7% 10.4%   23.3% 16.5%               less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 18 — * 32 25 27net income attributable to pfizer inc.(b) $2,840 $1,355 * $9,034 $6,440 40% of revenues 21.6% 10.4%   23.3% 16.4%               earnings per common share––basic(b)::            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.48 $0.22 * $1.51 $1.06 43net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.48 $0.22 * $1.51 $1.06 43             earnings per common share––diluted(b):            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.47 $0.22 * $1.49 $1.04 43net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.47 $0.22 * $1.49 $1.04 43             cash dividends paid per common share $0.32 $0.30 7 $0.96 $0.90 7* calculation not meaningful.(a) excludes amortization of intangible assets, except as disclosed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill:identifiable intangible assets.(b) amounts for the three and nine months ended october 2, 2016 have been revised from previously reported amounts to reflect the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of january 1, 2016. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies––adoption of new accounting standards.47overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (alliance revenues).we manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information and the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a below.the majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2016 form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, the ability to replenish innovative biopharmaceutical products, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. we also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. for additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “our operating environment” and “the global economic environment” sections of this md&a and of our 2016 financial report and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors” of this quarterly report on form 10-q.the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the u.s. is as of and for the three and nine months ended august 27, 2017 and august 28, 2016. the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for u.s. subsidiaries is as of and for the three and nine months ended october 1, 2017 and october 2, 2016.references to developed and emerging markets in this md&a include:developed markets u.s., western europe, japan, canada, australia, south korea, scandinavian countries, finland and new zealand   emerging markets (includes, but is not limited to) asia (excluding japan and south korea), latin america, africa, eastern europe, central europe, the middle east and turkeyreferences to operational variances in this md&a pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. the operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current period u.s. dollar results by the current period average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year period average foreign exchange rates. although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information in evaluating the results of our business.in october 2017, we announced that we are reviewing strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business. a range of options will be considered, including a full or partial separation of the consumer healthcare business from pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction, and we may ultimately determine to retain the business. our other significant business development activities include:•on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion therapy net assets, his, to icu medical for up to approximately $900 million, composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, icu medical common stock and seller financing. at closing, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of icu medical common stock, which we initially valued at approximately $428 million, a promissory note in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. in addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on icu medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through december 31, 2019. the operating results of his are included in our condensed consolidated statement of income and eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, our financial results, and eh’s 48operating results, for the third quarter of 2017 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, while our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for the third quarter of 2016 reflect three months of his global operations. our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for the first nine months of 2017 reflect approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations, while our financial results, and eh’s operating results, for the first nine months of 2016 reflect nine months of his global operations. assets and liabilities associated with his are presented as held for sale in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2016. the his assets held for sale are reported in assets held for sale and his liabilities held for sale are reported in other current liabilities.•on december 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s. the total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $555 million in cash plus contingent consideration of $490 million. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of this business, and, in accordance with our international reporting period, our financial results, eh’s operating results, and cash flows for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 reflect approximately three months and eight months, respectively, of the small molecule anti-infectives business acquired from astrazeneca.•on september 28, 2016, we acquired medivation for $81.50 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ($13.9 billion, net of cash acquired). of this consideration, approximately $365 million was not paid as of december 31, 2016, and was recorded in other current liabilities. substantially all of the remaining consideration was paid as of october 1, 2017. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of medivation. therefore, medivation operations are reflected in our financial results, ih’s operating results, and cash flows for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017. in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the third quarter and first nine months of 2016 reflect three business days of medivation operations, which were immaterial.•on june 24, 2016, we acquired anacor for $99.25 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ($4.5 billion, net of cash acquired), plus $698 million debt assumed. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of anacor. therefore, anacor operations are reflected in our financial results, ih’s operating results, and cash flows for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017. in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the third quarter and first nine months of 2016 reflect approximately three months of anacor operations.for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments and the “our strategy” and “our business development initiatives” sections of this md&a below.impact of recent hurricanes in puerto ricowe have manufacturing and commercial operations in puerto rico, which were impacted by the recent hurricanes toward the end of the third quarter in 2017. while our three manufacturing sites sustained some damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting puerto rico overall, we have made significant progress in repairing our facilities in anticipation of ramping up to full operations over the coming months. as of the date of this form 10-q filing, some packaging production has begun at our facilities. we expect our facilities to reach full capacity in early 2018, but there could be certain product shortages in the coming months. our commercial sales offices in puerto rico have been operational since october 9, 2017. in the third quarter of 2017, we recorded $55 million in cost of sales for inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which the plants could not operate, and incremental costs to date resulting from the hurricanes in puerto rico. we may record additional losses in future periods but we are unable to predict them with certainty at this time. as a result of dual source supply options and sufficient pre-hurricane inventory levels, we currently expect the impact on future revenues to be insignificant. we will continue to monitor the situation closely and make any updates to our outlook if warranted. product manufacturingwe periodically encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including due to legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing or voluntary recall of a product. within our essential health portfolio, we have been experiencing product shortages with some products. the product shortages are primarily for products from the legacy hospira portfolio and are largely driven by capacity constraints and technical issues. in february 2017, for example, we received a 49warning letter from the fda communicating the fda’s view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira’s manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. we are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda. communication with the fda is ongoing. until the violations are corrected, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at mcpherson, kansas. any continued product shortage interruption at this manufacturing facility could negatively impact our financial results, specifically in our sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio. in addition to the mcpherson facility, we continue to remediate issues at other legacy hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables within our essential health portfolio. we expect to make substantial progress on our remediation efforts during 2018.our 2017 performancerevenuesrevenues in the third quarter of 2017 increased 1% compared to the same period in 2016, which reflects an operational increase of $178 million, or 1%, slightly offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.revenues in the first nine months of 2017 decreased 1% compared to the same period in 2016, which reflects an operational increase of $19 million and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 1%.the following provides an analysis of the changes in revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017:(millions of dollars) three months nine months     revenues, for the three months and nine months ended october 2, 2016 $13,045 $39,196    disposition-related operational impact––february 2017 sale of his(a) (280) (783)    other operational growth/(decline)    continued growth from key brands(b) and growth from biosimilars 806 2,245growth in xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation)  148 420declines from peri-loe products, enbrel (driven by declines in most developed europe markets), prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (driven by declines in the u.s.), and viagra (ih) (primarily in the u.s.), as well as a decline in our sip portfolio, and for the first nine months of 2017, also includes a decline in the lep portfolio (598) (1,951)other operational factors, net 102 87operational growth, net 178 19     operational revenues 13,222 39,215unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (54) (372)revenues, for the three months and nine months ended october 1, 2017 $13,168 $38,843(a) in the third quarter of 2017, financial results do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to the inclusion of three months of his global operations in the same period in 2016. in the first nine months of 2017, financial results include approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations, compared to nine months of his global operations in the same period in 2016.(b) key brands include ibrance and eliquis (globally) as well as lyrica (ih) and xeljanz (both primarily in the u.s.).see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues and product developments––revenues––overview” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance.50income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on incomethe following provides an analysis of the increases in income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017:(millions of dollars) three months nine months     income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three months and nine months ended october 2, 2016 $1,604 $7,575     favorable/(unfavorable) change in revenues 123 (353)     favorable/(unfavorable) changes:   nonrecurrence of 2016 impairment on remeasurement of his net assets and lower loss on sale of his(a) 1,434 1,369lower cost of sales(b) 238 1,130lower certain asset impairments(a) 3937lower restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs(c) 381 611(higher)/lower certain legal matters, net(a) (223) 300higher net gains on asset disposals(a) 108268higher dividend income(a) 54 204lower selling, information and administrative expenses(d) 59 181lower business and legal entity alignment costs(a)  53 126higher amortization of intangible assets(e) (209)(637)lower royalty-related income(a) (93)(363)     all other items, net 524income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three months and nine months ended october 1, 2017 $3,585$11,351(a) see the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.(b) see the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a.(c) see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a.(d) see the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative expenses” section of this md&a.(e) see the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets” section of this md&a.for information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters.our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesintellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with generic manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. we have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio have been challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. the invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace.as a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of pristiq launched in the u.s. in march 2017. see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity in the u.s., europe and/or japan impacting product revenues and (ii) recent losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years, including, among others, viagra in the u.s. in december 2017 and the expiration of the basic product patent for lyrica in the u.s. in december 2018. 51for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2016 form 10-k.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “revenues––major products” and “revenues––selected product discussion” sections of this md&a. for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. for additional information, see the “government regulation and price constraints” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2016 form 10-k. we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:•$157 million in the third quarter of 2017 and $143 million in the third quarter of 2016, and $296 million in the first nine months of 2017 and $302 million in the first nine months of 2016, recorded as a reduction to revenues related to the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and •$87 million in the third quarter of 2017 and $95 million in the third quarter of 2016, and $218 million in the first nine months of 2017 and $219 million in the first nine months of 2016, recorded in selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs.regulatory environment/pricing and access––government and other payer group pressuresgovernments, mcos and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to patients and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. in the u.s., a primary government activity with implications for pharmaceutical pricing is deficit reduction. any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. significant medicare reductions could also result if congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or if it chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. similar reductions to medicare spending could result if the threshold for action by the independent payment advisory board (ipab) is reached, and the secretary of the department of health and human services (to whom responsibility for developing savings proposals specified in the aca is likely to default in the absence of a seated ipab) is required to identify savings. current projections by the centers for medicare and medicaid services office of the actuary indicate that the ipab threshold will not be reached before 2021.consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue.additionally, efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. there has recently been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals, and there are indications that there could be a presidential executive order that would focus on pharmaceuticals. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we continue to work with stakeholders to ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system.adoption of other new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca, though the likelihood of repeal of the aca is now low given the recent failure of the senate’s multiple attempts to repeal various combinations of aca provisions. in october 2017, the president signed an executive order directing federal agencies to modify how the aca is implemented and announced that his administration will withhold the cost-52sharing subsidies paid to health insurance exchange plans serving low-income enrollees. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges under the aca are minor, so the impact of the recent administration actions is expected to be limited. there is no assurance that any replacement, modification or repeal of the aca will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage. we also may face uncertainties if our industry is looked to for savings to fund certain legislation, such as reauthorization of the children’s health insurance program, or lifting the debt ceiling. there have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which have generally focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. recent legislation enacted includes, for example, a 2017 maryland law that prohibits a generic drug manufacturer or wholesale distributor from engaging in price gouging in the sale of certain off-patent or generic drugs, and a 2017 california law that requires manufacturers to provide advanced notification of price increases to certain purchasers and report specified drug pricing information to the state. we cannot predict the success of current or future federal or state legislative efforts. we will continue to work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes and lower costs to the healthcare system.the potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca to be imposed in 2020, are already scaling back healthcare benefits and an increasing number are implementing high deductible benefit designs. this is a trend that is likely to continue, especially if proposals to limit the tax exclusion for employer sponsored health insurance ultimately become law. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes.overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. outside the u.s., governments, including the different eu member states, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries and some third-party trade in our products between countries.in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations (un) and the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), are increasing policy pressures and scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 un high level panel report on access to medicines and 2017 oecd report on new health technologies––managing access, value and sustainability). government adoption of these recommendations may lead to additional pricing pressures.in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. for additional information, see the “regulatory environment––pipeline productivity” and “competition” sections of our 2016 financial report.the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. •governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing 53pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. examples include europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets. the u.s. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage.•we continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets, including greece, where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. for further information about our accounts receivable, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.•significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates, including those changes resulting from the volatility following the u.k. referendum in which voters approved the exit from the eu, can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” and the “our financial guidance for 2017” sections of this md&a. •in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as “brexit”. in january 2017, the u.k. prime minister announced a 12-point plan of negotiating objectives and confirmed that the u.k. government will not seek continued membership in the eu single market. in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. this process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval of our products.we generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the u.k. in the first nine months of 2017. however, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu. in addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable.pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both s&p and moody’s. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, "risk factors," of this quarterly report on form 10-q.our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. 54we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. commercial operationswe manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). the ih and eh operating segments are each led by a single manager. each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain ipr&d projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets.some additional information about our business segments follows: ih segment  eh segment●ih focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare.key therapeutic areas include internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare diseases and consumer healthcare. ●eh includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars, select branded products including anti-infectives and, through february 2, 2017, his. eh also includes an r&d organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business.●we expect that the ih biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to help ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by ih are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. ●eh is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. eh leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. additionally, eh leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. eh may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.●ih will have continued focus on r&d productivity and pipeline strength while maximizing the value of our recently launched brands and in-line portfolio. our acquisitions of anacor and medivation expanded our pipeline in the high priority therapeutic areas of inflammation and immunology and oncology. ●for eh, we continue to invest in growth drivers and manage the portfolio to extract additional value while seeking opportunities for operating efficiencies. this strategy includes active management of our portfolio; maximizing growth of core product segments; acquisitions to strengthen core areas of our portfolio further, such as our recent acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business; and divestitures to increase focus on our core strengths. in line with this strategy, on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion therapy net assets, representing the infusion systems net assets that we acquired as part of the hospira transaction, his, to icu medical. leading brands include:- prevnar 13/prevenar 13- xeljanz- eliquis- lyrica (u.s., japan and certain other markets)- enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada)- viagra (u.s. and canada)- ibrance- xtandi- several otc consumer healthcare products (e.g., advil and  centrum)  leading brands include:- lipitor- premarin family- norvasc- lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asiacountries)- celebrex- inflectra/remsima- several sterile injectable productsfor additional information about the 2017 performance for each of our operating segments, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.55description of research and development operationsinnovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on:•biosimilars; •inflammation and immunology;•metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks;•neuroscience; •oncology;•rare diseases; and•vaccines.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations: •research units within our wrd organization are generally responsible for research assets for our ih business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our research units are organized in a variety of ways (by therapeutic area or combinations of therapeutic areas, by discipline, by location, etc.) to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources within a research unit between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. •our r&d organization within the eh business supports the large base of eh products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. •our gpd organization is a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products and is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. gpd combines certain previously separate development-related functions from the ih business and the wrd organization to achieve a development capability that is expected to deliver high-quality, efficient, and well-executed clinical programs by enabling greater speed, greater cost efficiencies, and reduced complexity across our development portfolio. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects. •our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&d spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicinal chemistry, regulatory and drug safety, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. as a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs.we manage r&d operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. specifically, a single committee with representation from the r&d groups and the ih commercial organization is accountable for aligning resources among all of our wrd, gpd and ih r&d projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the innovative r&d portfolio. we believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. our eh r&d organization manages its resources separately from the wrd and gpd organizations.generally, we do not disaggregate total r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our r&d operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending.while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations, alliances and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and 56funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments––biopharmaceutical” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. for additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights and certain other patent proceedings, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation. for information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see “risks related to intellectual property” in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a. for additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen one or both of our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of hospira, medivation, anacor, and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies, including our collaborations with cellectis, opko and merck kgaa. we assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses. in october 2017, we announced that we are reviewing strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business. a range of options will be considered, including a full or partial separation of the consumer healthcare business from pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction, and we may ultimately determine to retain the business. we expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for consumer healthcare would be made during 2018. for additional information on our business development activities, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments.the more significant recent transactions and events are described below:•sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh)––on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion therapy net assets, his, to icu medical. in connection with this transaction, we recognized pre-tax income of approximately $12 million in the third quarter of 2017 and pre-tax losses of approximately $52 million in the first 57nine months of 2017 in other (income)/deductions––net, representing adjustments to amounts previously recorded to write down the his net assets to fair value less costs to sell. we may record additional adjustments to the loss on the sale of his net assets in future periods, pending final working capital adjustments and local market closes, among other agreement provisions, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.•acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business (eh)––on december 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s. the total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $555 million in cash plus the fair value of contingent consideration of $490 million.•acquisition of medivation, inc. (ih)––on september 28, 2016, we acquired medivation for $81.50 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ($13.9 billion, net of cash acquired). medivation’s portfolio includes xtandi (enzalutamide), an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells. xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. astellas has exclusive commercialization rights for xtandi outside the u.s. in addition, medivation has a development-stage oncology asset in its pipeline, talazoparib, which is currently in a phase 3 study for the treatment of brca-mutated breast cancer.•acquisition of bamboo therapeutics, inc. (r&d)––on august 1, 2016, we acquired all the remaining equity in bamboo, a privately-held biotechnology company, focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare diseases relating to neuromuscular conditions and those affecting the central nervous system, for $150 million, plus potential milestone payments of up to $495 million contingent upon the progression of key assets through development, regulatory approval and commercialization. we previously purchased a minority stake in bamboo in the first quarter of 2016 for a payment of approximately $43 million. this acquisition provides us with several clinical and pre-clinical assets that complement our rare disease portfolio, an advanced recombinant aav vector design and production technology, and a fully functional phase i/ii gene therapy manufacturing facility. •acquisition of anacor pharmaceuticals, inc. (ih)––on june 24, 2016, we acquired anacor for $99.25 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ($4.5 billion net of cash acquired) plus $698 million debt assumed. anacor’s crisaborole, a non-steroidal topical pde-4 inhibitor with anti-inflammatory properties, was approved by the fda on december 14, 2016 under the trade name eucrisa, for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis in patients two years of age and older, commonly referred to as a type of eczema. anacor also holds the rights to kerydin, a topical treatment for onychomycosis (toenail fungus) that is distributed and commercialized by sandoz in the u.s.•research and development arrangement with novaquest co-investment fund v, l.p.––in april 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with novaquest under which novaquest will fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s rivipansel compound and pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. novaquest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately twelve quarters from 2016 to 2019. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to novaquest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2017 totaled $16.8 million and for the first nine months of 2017 totaled $48.8 million. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2016 totaled $14.5 million and for the first nine months of 2016 totaled $29.5 million. following potential regulatory approval, novaquest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total, based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•research and development arrangement with rpi finance trust––in january 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with rpi, a subsidiary of royalty pharma, under which rpi will fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the indication). rpi’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials through 2021. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to rpi, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2017 totaled $27.6 million and for the first nine months of 2017 totaled $54.4 million. the reduction to research and development expenses for the third quarter of 2016 totaled $11.0 million and for the first nine months of 2016 totaled $32.7 million. if successful and upon approval of ibrance in the u.s. or certain major markets in the eu for the indication based 58on the applicable clinical trials, rpi will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain ibrance sales over approximately seven years. fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•approval of besponsa––in august 2017, the u.s. approved besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin) and in june 2017, the eu approved besponsa as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory cd22-positive b-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia. in connection with the u.s. approval, we incurred an obligation to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over a nine-year period aggregating $296 million related to a research and development arrangement. as a result, we have recorded the estimated net present value of $248 million as an intangible asset in developed technology rights, and we have recorded $233 million in other noncurrent liabilities and $15 million in other current liabilities as of october 1, 2017. in connection with the eu approval, we incurred an obligation to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over a nine-year period aggregating $148 million related to a research and development arrangement. as a result, we have recorded the estimated net present value of $123 million as an intangible asset in developed technology rights, and we have recorded $117 million in other noncurrent liabilities and $6 million in other current liabilities as of october 1, 2017.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 23, 2017, the filing date of our 2016 form 10-k, see the “our business development initiatives” section of our 2016 financial report.our financial guidance for 2017on october 31, 2017, we updated our 2017 financial guidance. specifically, we narrowed the ranges for certain 2017 financial guidance components, including a $0.03 increase to the midpoint of our range for adjusted diluted eps guidance to a range of $2.58 to $2.62. the midpoint of our new guidance range for adjusted diluted eps implies 8% growth compared with last year.pfizer’s updated 2017 financial guidance is presented below(a), (b):revenues$52.4 to $53.1 billion (previously $52.0 to $54.0 billion)adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues20.0% to 20.5% (previously 20.0% to 21.0%)adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$14.0 to $14.5 billion (previously $13.7 to $14.7 billion)adjusted research and development expenses$7.5 to $7.8 billion (previously $7.5 to $8.0 billion)adjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately $500 million of income(previously approximately $200 million of income)effective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 23.0%adjusted diluted eps$2.58 to $2.62(previously $2.54 to $2.60)(a) the 2017 financial guidance reflects the following:•does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of october 1, 2017, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions.•exchange rates assumed are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through september 2017 and mid-october 2017 exchange rates for the remainder of the year.•reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.3 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. •reflects the anticipated negative impact of $0.1 billion on revenues and $0.01 on adjusted diluted eps as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2016.•guidance for adjusted diluted eps assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of between 6.0 and 6.1 billion shares, which reflects the impact of our $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in february 2017 and completed in may 2017.(b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.pfizer does not provide guidance for gaap reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-gaap financial measures to the most directly comparable gaap reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. these items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on gaap reported results for the guidance period. 59for information about our actual costs and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our three-year cost-reduction initiative entered into in the fourth quarter of 2016, the hospira acquisition, our recent business development activities, and global commercial structure, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our 2017 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “our operating environment”, “the global economic environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; in part ii, item 1a, “risk factors”, of this quarterly report on form 10-q; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k.significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptionsfor a description of our significant accounting policies, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies in our 2016 form 10-k. of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) acquisitions (note 1d); (ii) fair value (note 1e); (iii) revenues (note 1g); (iv) asset impairments (note 1k); (v) income tax contingencies (note 1o); (vi) pension and postretirement benefit plans (note 1p); and legal and environmental contingencies (note 1q). for a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements, see the “significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions” section of our 2016 financial report. see also notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions in our 2016 form 10-k.for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.60analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomerevenues and product developmentsrevenues––overviewthe following graphs show revenues by geography (dollars in billions):the following tables provide worldwide revenues by operating segment and by geography:  three months ended  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) oct 1, 2017 oct 2, 2016 oct 1, 2017 oct 2, 2016 oct 1, 2017 oct 2, 2016 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $8,118 $7,332 $4,777 $4,244 $3,341 $3,088 11 13 8eh 5,050 5,712 1,756 2,286 3,294 3,426 (12) (23) (4)total revenues $13,168 $13,045 $6,534 $6,530 $6,634 $6,515 1 — 2   nine months ended  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) oct 1, 2017 oct 2, 2016 oct 1, 2017 oct 2, 2016 oct 1, 2017 oct 2, 2016 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $23,204 $21,471 $13,708 $12,308 $9,496 $9,163 8 11 4eh 15,639 17,725 5,808 7,253 9,831 10,472 (12) (20) (6)total revenues $38,843 $39,196 $19,516 $19,561 $19,327 $19,636 (1) — (2)(a) ih = the innovative health segment; and eh = the essential health segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” and “analysis of operating segment information” sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.61revenues––third quarter of 2017 vs. third quarter of 2016the following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in the third quarter of 2017:(millions of dollars) three months ended october 1, 2017  worldwide u.s. international      disposition-related operational impact:     financial results in the third quarter of 2017 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to the inclusion of three months of his global operations in the same period in 2016 (february 2017 sale)  $(280) $(220) $(60)      other operational growth/(decline):      continued growth from key brands including ibrance and eliquis globally, as well as lyrica (ih) and xeljanz, both primarily in the u.s.  751 460 291growth in xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation)  148 148 —growth from biosimilars 55 34 21decline from peri-loe products, including declines in pristiq in the u.s., which lost marketing exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017, as well as lyrica (eh) and vfend, both primarily in developed europe markets  (220) (103) (117)decline from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (182) (196) 14lower revenues for viagra (ih) in the u.s. primarily due to wholesaler destocking in advance of anticipated generic competition beginning in december 2017 (91) (91) —lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition  (89) — (89)decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues. u.s. revenues decreased primarily due to the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year quarter, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. international revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets and the launch of prevenar 13 in china for the pediatric indication. (16) (40) 24other operational factors, net 102 12 89operational growth, net 178 4 174      unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (54) — (54)revenues increase $123 $4 $120emerging markets revenues increased $254 million, or 10%, in the third quarter of 2017 to $2.8 billion, reflecting an operational increase of $280 million, or 11%. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 1% on emerging markets revenues. the operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by our ih segment as well as our legacy established products and sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolios.62revenues––first nine months of 2017 vs. first nine months of 2016the following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in the first nine months of 2017:(millions of dollars) nine months ended october 1, 2017  worldwide u.s. international       disposition-related operational impact:      approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the first nine months of 2017, compared to nine months of his global operations in the same period in 2016 (february 2017 sale)  $(783) $(626) $(158)       other operational growth/(decline):      continued growth from key brands including ibrance and eliquis globally, as well as lyrica (ih) and xeljanz, both primarily in the u.s. 2,102 1,404 698growth in xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation)  420 420 —growth from biosimilars 143 74 69decline from peri-loe products, including declines in pristiq in the u.s., which lost marketing exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017, as well as lyrica (eh) and vfend, both primarily in developed europe markets (779) (342) (437)lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition  (353) — (353)decline in the legacy established products portfolio (250) (314) 64decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues. u.s. revenues decreased primarily due to the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the first nine months of 2016, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. international revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets and the launch of prevenar 13 in china for the pediatric indication. (213) (256) 44decline in viagra (ih) revenues mainly in the u.s. primarily due to lower market growth (186) (186) (1)decline from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (169) (253) 84other operational factors, net 87 33 54operational growth (decline), net 19 (45) 64       unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (372) — (372)revenues decrease $(353) $(45) $(308)emerging markets revenues increased $508 million, or 7%, in the first nine months of 2017 to $8.2 billion, reflecting an operational increase of $684 million, or 9%. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 2% on emerging markets revenues. the operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by our ih segment as well as our legacy established products and sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolios.revenue deductionsour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent chargebacks, rebates and sales allowances to wholesalers, and, to a lesser extent, distributors like mcos, retailers and government agencies with respect to our pharmaceutical products. those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends.63the following table provides information about revenue deductions:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016medicare rebates(a) $355 $285 $931 $777medicaid and related state program rebates(a) 439 3381,335 1,073performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 773 6292,321 1,854chargebacks(c) 1,608 1,4654,585 4,318sales allowances(d) 1,419 1,1773,718 3,268sales returns and cash discounts 329 356 1,025 1,044total(e) $4,923 $4,251 $13,916 $12,334(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with mcos within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pbms, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. outside the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to u.s. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the u.s., discounts and distribution fees.(e) for the three months ended october 1, 2017, associated with the following segments: ih ($2.4 billion) and eh ($2.5 billion). for the three months ended october 2, 2016, associated with the following segments: ih ($1.8 billion); and eh ($2.4 billion). for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, associated with the following segments: ih ($6.4 billion) and eh ($7.5 billion). for the nine months ended october 2, 2016, associated with the following segments: ih ($5.1 billion) and eh ($7.2 billion).total revenue deductions for the third quarter of 2017 increased 16% compared to the third quarter of 2016, and total revenue deductions for the first nine months of 2017 increased 13% compared to the first nine months of 2016, primarily as a result of:•an increase in performance-based contract rebates primarily due to sales to managed care customers in the u.s., as well as higher rebates in certain markets outside the u.s.;•an increase in sales allowances primarily in markets outside the u.s.;•an increase in chargebacks from certain ih products, partially offset by decreases across several eh products; and•an increase in medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of updated estimates of sales related to these programs.our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $4.6 billion as of october 1, 2017, of which (i) approximately $2.5 billion represents accrued rebates included in other current liabilities, and (ii) approximately $2.1 billion represents other accruals included in other current liabilities ($472 million), other noncurrent liabilities ($344 million) and against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts ($1.3 billion), in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $4.3 billion as of december 31, 2016, of which (i) approximately $2.3 billion represents accrued rebates included in other current liabilities, and (ii) approximately $2.0 billion represents other accruals included in other current liabilities ($509 million), other noncurrent liabilities ($357 million) and against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts ($1.2 billion), in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. 64revenues—major productsthe following table provides revenue information for several of our major products. as described in note 1a, acquisitions and divestitures have impacted our results of operations in 2017 and 2016.  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars)   % change(a)   % change(a)product primary indications or class oct 1, 2017total oper.oct 1, 2017total oper.total revenues   $13,168 1 1 $38,843 (1) —pfizer innovative health (ih)(b) $8,118 11 11 $23,204 8 9internal medicine $2,455 9 10 $7,245 10 11lyrica ih(c) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury 1,150 10 11 3,382 9 9eliquis alliance revenues and direct sales atrial fibrillation, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism 644 43 43 1,813 48 49chantix/champix an aid to smoking cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age or older 240 21 22 727 15 15viagra ih(d) erectile dysfunction 206 (31) (31) 711 (21) (21)bmp2 development of bone and cartilage 79 24 24 198 13 13toviaz overactive bladder 62 4 5 187 (2) —all other internal medicine various 75 (41) (41) 228 (31) (31)vaccines $1,649 1 — $4,385 (4) (4)prevnar 13/prevenar 13 vaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease 1,522 (1) (1) 4,069 (5) (5)fsme/immun-ticovac tick-borne encephalitis vaccine 43 31 29 119 17 19all other vaccines various 85 17 16 197 14 17oncology $1,616 46 46 $4,551 42 43ibrance advanced breast cancer 878 60 59 2,410 61 62sutent advanced and/or metastatic rcc, refractory gist (after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate) and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor 276 6 6 805 (2) (1)xalkori alk-positive and ros1-positive advanced nsclc 146 4 4 442 6 8xtandi alliance revenues advanced prostate cancer 150 * * 422 * *inlyta advanced rcc 84 (12) (10) 256 (16) (14)bosulif philadelphia chromosome–positive chronic myelogenous leukemia 573435 163 35 36all other oncology various 26 74 76 54 10 11inflammation & immunology (i&i) $1,000 4 4 $2,863 (1) —enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada) rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, pediatric plaque psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis 613 (13) (13) 1,818 (17) (16)xeljanz rheumatoid arthritis 348 48 49 935 44 44eucrisa mild to moderate atopic dermatitis (eczema) 15 * * 33 * *all other i&i various 23 (3) 1 78 35 36rare disease $569 (3) (3) $1,637 (7) (6)benefix hemophilia 151 (14) (14) 453 (17) (16)refacto af/xyntha hemophilia 140 — (1) 409 — 3genotropin replacement of human growth hormone 136 (7) (6) 375 (12) (10)somavert acromegaly 65 11 10 182 6 7all other rare disease various 77 21 21 218 (1) 1consumer healthcare $829 4 4 $2,522 3 3pfizer essential health (eh)(e) $5,050 (12) (11) $15,639 (12) (11)legacy established products (lep)(f) $2,681 (1) — $7,995 (5) (3)lipitor reduction of ldl cholesterol 491 16 18 1,341 4 6premarin family symptoms of menopause 238 (2) (2) 711 (5) (5)norvasc hypertension 226 (5) (3) 684 (4) (1)epipen epinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions 82 (25) (25) 253 (16) (15)xalatan/xalacom glaucoma and ocular hypertension 83 (9) (8) 241 (12) (12)effexor depression and certain anxiety disorders 76 8 9 215 4 5zoloft depression and certain anxiety disorders 78 9 11 215 (6) (4)zithromax bacterial infections 61 10 11 202 (1) 3relpax symptoms of migraine headache 50 (39) (39) 193 (22) (22)xanax anxiety disorders 58 5 4 164 1 2all other lep various 1,237 (2) (1) 3,776 (5) (4)sterile injectable pharmaceuticals (sip)(g) $1,273 (13) (12) $4,270 (5) (4)medrol steroid anti-inflammatory 109 7 7 352 7 7sulperazon treatment of infections 114 11 13 345 14 18fragmin slows blood clotting 79 (1) (1) 221 (8) (6)tygacil tetracycline class antibiotic 60 (12) (12) 192 (5) (5)precedex sedation agent in surgery or intensive care 51 (21) (20) 182 (8) (9)all other sip various 860 (18) (17) 2,977 (7) (6)65  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars)   % change(a)   % change(a)product primary indications or class oct 1, 2017total oper.oct 1, 2017total oper.peri-loe products(h) $794 (22) (22) $2,398 (26) (24)celebrex arthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain 212 9 11 564 3 4lyrica eh(c) epilepsy, neuropathic pain and generalized anxiety disorder 134 (30) (31) 428 (31) (29)vfend fungal infections 97 (31) (29) 305 (33) (32)viagra eh(d) erectile dysfunction 102 14 16 285 — 3pristiq depression 69 (61) (61) 230 (58) (58)zyvox bacterial infections 68 (28) (27) 220 (34) (33)revatio pulmonary arterial hypertension 58 (20) (20) 189 (11) (11)all other peri-loe products various 55 (19) (17) 176 (17) (15)biosimilars(i) various $141 70 67 $367 61 63inflectra/remsima inflammatory diseases 112 * * 284 * *all other biosimilars various 28 (16) (18) 82 (15) (14)pfizer centreone(j)   $161 3 3 $514 (5) (5)hospira infusion systems (his)(k) various $— * * $97 (89) (89)total lyrica(c) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury $1,285 4 5 $3,810 2 3total viagra(d) erectile dysfunction $308 (20) (20) $996 (16) (15)total alliance revenues various $741 77 78 $2,112 83 84(a) as compared to the three and nine months ended october 2, 2016.(b) the ih business encompasses internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare disease and consumer healthcare. through december 31, 2016, includes duavive/duavee and viviant (recorded in all other internal medicine in 2016), which were transferred from innovative health to essential health effective january 1, 2017 (recorded in all other lep (eh) beginning january 1, 2017), in order to align these products with our management of the women’s health portfolio within eh. (c) lyrica revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia countries are included in lyrica eh. all other lyrica revenues are included in lyrica ih. total lyrica revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from lyrica ih and lyrica eh.(d) viagra revenues from the u.s. and canada are included in viagra ih. all other viagra revenues are included in viagra eh. total viagra revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh.(e) the eh business encompasses legacy established products, sterile injectable pharmaceuticals, peri-loe products, biosimilars, pfizer centreone and his (through february 2, 2017) and includes all legacy hospira commercial operations.(f) legacy established products primarily include products that have lost patent protection (excluding sterile injectable pharmaceuticals and peri-loe products). effective january 1, 2017, all other lep includes duavive/duavee and viviant, which were transferred from innovative health (recorded in all other internal medicine (ih) in 2016), in order to align these products with our management of the women’s health portfolio within eh. see note (b) above.(g) sterile injectable pharmaceuticals include generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding peri-loe products).(h) peri-loe products include products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. these products include: lyrica in europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia; viagra in all countries (excluding the u.s. and canada); and worldwide revenues for celebrex, pristiq, zyvox, vfend, revatio and inspra.(i) biosimilars include inflectra/remsima (biosimilar infliximab) in the u.s. and certain international markets, nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) in certain european, asian and africa/middle eastern markets and retacrit (biosimilar epoetin zeta) in certain european and africa/middle eastern markets.(j) pfizer centreone includes revenues from our contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including sterile injectables contract manufacturing, and revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements, including with zoetis.(k) his (through february 2, 2017) includes medication management systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as iv infusion products, including large volume iv solutions and their associated administration sets.*indicates calculation not meaningful.amounts may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.revenues––selected product discussionthe information included in “revenues—selected product discussion” below should be read in conjunction with the revenue information included in the “revenues—major products” section.•prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (ih) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.in the u.s., revenues for prevnar 13 decreased 4% in the third quarter of 2017 and 9% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication in the u.s. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults age 65 and older who have not been previously vaccinated with prevnar 13) compared to the prior-year period, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. given the success since the launch of the adult indication, approximately 53% of the eligible patient pool 65 years and above in the u.s. has already been vaccinated. while the remaining eligible population is large, this cohort is much more difficult to capture.internationally, revenues for prevenar 13 increased 5% operationally in the third quarter of 2017 and 3% operationally in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets and the launch of prevenar 13 in china for the pediatric indication. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on international revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. 66in 2014, the acip voted to recommend prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. these acip recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the cdc and u.s. department of health and human services, and were published in the morbidity and mortality weekly report in september 2014 by the cdc. as with other vaccines, the cdc regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the cdc announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018. a potential adverse change in the acip recommendation could negatively impact future prevnar 13 revenues. currently, we are working with a number of u.s. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends.•lyrica (eh (revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia)/ih (revenues from all other geographies)) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter and the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.in the u.s., lyrica revenues increased 12% in the third quarter of 2017 and 10% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, driven by sustained demand and positive price impact.internationally, lyrica revenues decreased 8% operationally in the third quarter of 2017 and 10% operationally in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.lyrica revenues in our ih segment increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily driven by sustained demand and positive price impact in the u.s. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on lyrica ih revenues in the third quarter and a de minimis impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.in our eh segment, worldwide revenues from lyrica decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets. foreign exchange had a favorable impact on lyrica eh worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•ibrance (ih) worldwide revenues, most of which were recorded in the u.s., increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. the significant revenue growth reflects our scientific/clinical data, continued positive patient experience as well as ibrance being the class leader among cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors in major markets. foreign exchange had a favorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and had an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•enbrel (ih, outside the u.s. and canada) worldwide revenues, excluding the u.s. and canada, decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to on-going biosimilar competition in most developed europe markets, which is expected to continue. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•lipitor (eh) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter and the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. in the u.s., revenues increased more than 100% in the third quarter of 2017 and 11% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to favorable rebates.in our international markets, revenues increased 11% operationally in the third quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, driven by increased demand in china and certain middle eastern markets, partially offset by lower volumes in japan and pricing pressures in china. international revenues increased 6% operationally in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, driven by increased demand in china, partially offset by lower volumes in japan and certain middle eastern markets, as well as pricing pressures in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•viagra (ih (u.s. and canada revenues)/eh (all other revenues excluding u.s. and canada)) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. the decrease in the third quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, was primarily due to wholesaler destocking in advance of anticipated generic competition in the u.s. beginning in december 2017. the decrease in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, was primarily due to lower market growth. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.67revenues in the u.s. decreased 32% in the third quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to wholesaler destocking in advance of anticipated generic competition beginning in december 2017. revenues in the u.s. decreased 21% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to lower market growth. international revenues increased 15% operationally in the third quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily from demand in emerging markets, primarily in china. international revenues increased 3% operationally in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily from increased demand in emerging markets, mainly china and certain middle eastern markets, partially offset by price reductions in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. •xeljanz (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. in the u.s., xeljanz revenues increased 44% in the third quarter of 2017 and 40% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists, growing awareness among patients and improvements in payer access. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and had a de minimis impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•benefix and refacto af/xyntha (ih)––benefix worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily as a result of erosion of market share in the u.s. and european countries due to increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options as well as a price decrease in the u.k. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. refacto af/xyntha worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter of 2017 and increased operationally in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. the increase in the first nine months of 2017 was largely due to increased product demand in certain emerging markets, partially offset by declines in developed markets in europe and the u.s., primarily driven by increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options. foreign exchange had a favorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•sutent (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter of 2017 and decreased operationally in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. the increase in the third quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by increased performance in certain emerging markets. the decrease in the first nine months of 2017 was primarily due to competitive pressure in the u.s. and europe and cost containment measures in certain developed international markets, partially offset by increased performance in certain emerging markets. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•chantix/champix (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and a de minimis impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. in the u.s., chantix revenues increased 27% in the third quarter of 2017 and 21% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to increased promotional activities, educating healthcare providers on updates to the chantix label, including removal of the boxed warning, the addition of eagles safety and efficacy data, improved patient access and positive price impact.•the premarin family of products (eh) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter of 2017 and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. revenues in the u.s. decreased 2% in the third quarter and 5% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily driven by lower volume, partially offset by a positive price impact. internationally, premarin revenues decreased 8% operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to lower volumes in certain emerging markets and, with respect to the first nine months of 2017, the u.k., partially offset by price increases. foreign exchange had a favorable impact on international revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•norvasc (eh) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. results for the third quarter of 2017 and first nine months of 2017 were impacted by generic competition in japan, lower volumes in certain middle eastern markets and pricing pressures in china, partially offset by demand in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•celebrex (eh) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016. the increase in the third quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, was primarily 68driven by favorable rebates in the u.s. and increased demand in china, partially offset by generic competition in the u.s., lower volumes in certain middle eastern markets and pricing pressures in china and mexico. the increase in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, was primarily driven by favorable rebates in the u.s. and volume growth in emerging markets, primarily china, partially offset by generic competition in the u.s. and most developed international markets and pricing pressures in china and mexico. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•xalkori (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, as a result of a steady increase in diagnostic rates for the alk gene mutation across key markets outside the u.s., which has led to more patients being treated. this increase was partially offset by volume declines in the u.s. and japan due to competitive pressure, partially mitigated by the march 2016 fda approval of the supplemental nda to treat patients with metastatic nsclc whose tumors are ros1-positive as detected by an fda-approved test. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•inflectra/remsima (eh) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, due to continued uptake in developed markets in europe, and the u.s. launch in the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by pricing pressures in europe. foreign exchange had a favorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and an unfavorable impact in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.inflectra uptake in the u.s. is being driven by a number of factors including inflectra’s clinical data package, patient support programs, price and the access/reimbursement environment. to date, reimbursement coverage has been mixed. while we achieved 100% medicare coverage, we have experienced access challenges among commercial payers where our lower priced product has not received access at parity to the innovator product and remains in a disadvantaged position despite recent price increases taken by the innovator product. we will look at all relevant factors impacting reimbursement given our extensive experience working with commercial payers to enable greater access for inflectra. additionally, in september 2017, pfizer filed suit in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against johnson & johnson (j&j) alleging that j&j’s exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning remicade® (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws. •inlyta (ih) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to increased competition in the u.s. and europe, partially offset by performance in key emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•pristiq (eh) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to loss of exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.zyvox (eh) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, due to generic competition in developed international markets and the u.s. and corresponding pricing pressures, partially offset by volume growth in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.•eucrisa (ih) is approved in the u.s. for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis for patients two years of age and older. the fda approved eucrisa on december 14, 2016, and eucrisa was launched in the u.s. late in the first quarter of 2017. eucrisa is a novel non-steroidal topical ointment and is the first topical prescription treatment for atopic dermatitis approved in over 10 years. prescription volume continued to strengthen through the third quarter of 2017 supported by the launch of our direct-to-consumer campaign.•alliance revenues (ih/eh) increased operationally in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, mainly due to:◦an increase in eliquis alliance revenues due to higher demand resulting from increased market penetration of novel oral anticoagulants and market share gains; and◦the inclusion of xtandi alliance revenues of $150 million in the third quarter of 2017 and $422 million in the first nine months of 2017 in the u.s. resulting from the september 2016 acquisition of medivation. we expect patient assistance program (which provides free medicines to patients) utilization as a percentage of total demand to normalize as we move into next year.foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on alliance revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016.69◦eliquis (ih) has been jointly developed and is commercialized by pfizer and bms. pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where pfizer commercializes eliquis and pays bms compensation based on a percentage of net sales. we have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant (noac) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients.◦xtandi (ih) is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi. subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. pfizer and astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions—net).see the “analysis of the consolidated statements of income—revenues—selected product descriptions” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of the selected products discussed above.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.product developments—biopharmaceuticalwe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include:•delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise; •innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership; and •creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. our r&d primarily focuses on:•biosimilars; •inflammation and immunology;•metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks;•neuroscience; •oncology•rare diseases; and•vaccines.for additional information about our r&d organization, including the eh r&d organization, see the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook—our strategy—description of research and development operations” section of this md&a. a comprehensive update of pfizer’s development pipeline was published on october 31, 2017 and is available at www.pfizer.com/science/drug-product-pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for some candidates in phase 1 and all candidates from phase 2 through registration.the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.70recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedlyrica (pregabalin)extended-release tablets cv as once-daily therapy for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and the management of post-herpetic neuralgiaoctober 2017mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)treatment of adults with newly diagnosed cd33-positive acute myeloid leukemia (aml), and adults and children 2 years and older with relapsed or refractory cd33-positive amlseptember 2017besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin)treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory b-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemiaaugust 2017bavencio (avelumab)treatment for patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma with disease progression on or after platinum-based therapy, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germany may 2017bavencio (avelumab)treatment of adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older with metastatic merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanymarch 2017eucrisa (crisaborole)a non-steroidal topical anti-inflammatory pde-4 inhibitor for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitisdecember 2016pending u.s. ndas and supplemental filingsproductproposed indicationdate filed*pf-05280014(a)a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)august 2017bosulif (bosutinib)treatment of patients with newly diagnosed chronic phase philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with avillionaugust 2017xeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitisjuly 2017sutent (sunitinib)(b)adjuvant treatment in adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomymay 2017xeljanz (tofacitinib)(c)treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritismay 2017pf-06438179(d)a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)april 2017ertugliflozintreatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2017retacrit(e)a potential biosimilar to epogen® and procrit® (epotein alfa)february 2015tafamidis meglumine(f)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathyfebruary 2012*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(b) in september 2017, the fda’s oncologic drug advisory committee (odac) voted six in favor and six against the benefit-risk profile for sutent as adjuvant treatment of adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma after nephrectomy (surgical removal of the cancer-containing kidney).(c) in august 2017, the fda’s arthritis advisory committee voted ten to one to recommend approval of the proposed dose of tofacitinib for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis.(d) remicade® is a registered trademark of janssen. in february 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of pf-06438179, a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the eea to sandoz, which was a condition to the european commission’s approval of the hospira transaction. we retain commercialization rights to pf-06438179 in all countries outside of the eea.(e) epogen® is a registered u.s. trademark of amgen inc.; procrit® is a registered u.s. trademark of johnson & johnson. in october 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our biologics license application (bla) for retacrit, our proposed biosimilar to epoetin alfa, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. in december 2016, we completed the resubmission of the bla to the fda for retacrit in response to the “complete response” letter. in may 2017, the fda’s odac voted to recommend retacrit for approval. in june 2017, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda, relating to matters noted in a warning letter issued in february 2017 following a routine inspection of the company’s facility in mcpherson, kansas in 2016. this facility was listed as the potential manufacturing site in the bla for the proposed epoetin alfa biosimilar. the issues noted in the warning letter do not relate specifically to the manufacture of epoetin alfa. no additional clinical data was requested at this time and we continue to work closely with the fda on next steps. (f) in may 2012, the fda’s peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. pfizer initiated study b3461028 in december 2013, a global phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomyopathy, which includes transthyretin familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (ttr-fac) and wild-type cardiomyopathy (wt-cm). we anticipate results from this study in 2018, and continue to work with the fda to identify next steps.71regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in the eu for treatment of psoriatic arthritis—september 2017ibrance (palbociclib)approval in japan for ibrance in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of hr+, her2- inoperable or recurrent breast cancerseptember 2017—bavencio (avelumab)approval in japan for the treatment of curatively unresectable merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyseptember 2017—bavencio (avelumab)approval in the eu for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyseptember 2017—xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in the eu for the treatment of ulcerative colitis—august 2017bosulif (bosutinib)application filed in the eu for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed chronic phase philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with avillion—august 2017pf-06438179(a)application filed in japan for a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)—august 2017pf-05280014(b)application filed in the eu for a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)—july 2017besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin)approval in the eu for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory b-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemiajune 2017—trumenbaapproval in the eu for a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningtidis serogroup b in individuals 10 years of age and oldermay 2017—xalkori (crizotinib)approval in japan for the treatment of ros1-positive non-small cell lung cancermay 2017—xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in japan for the treatment of ulcerative colitis—may 2017sutent (sunitinib)application filed in the eu for the adjuvant treatment in adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomy—april 2017inotuzumab ozogamicinapplication filed in japan for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia—april 2017xeljanz (tofacitinib)approval in the eu for xeljanz in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. xeljanz can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when treatment with methotrexate is inappropriatemarch 2017—ertugliflozinapplication filed in the eu for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merck—february 2017mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)application filed in the eu for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia—december 2016ibrance (palbociclib)approval in the eu for palbociclib in combination withendocrine therapy for the treatment of hr+, her2- advanced ormetastatic breast cancer, as well as for the treatment of recurrentadvanced breast cancernovember 2016—*for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the ema validated our submissions.(a) remicade® is a registered trademark of janssen. in february 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of pf-06438179, a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the eea to sandoz, which was a condition to the european commission’s approval of the hospira transaction. we retain commercialization rights to pf-06438179 in all countries outside of the eea.(b) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.72late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductproposed indicationbavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1, in combination with inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor,for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration withmerck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lungcancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer,which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of ovarian cancer, which is beingdeveloped in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patientswith urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the third-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of thehead and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyinlyta (axitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with sfjibrance (palbociclib)treatment of her2+ advanced breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llcibrance (palbociclib)treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the german breast groupibrance (palbociclib)treatment of hr+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llc, and the austrian breast colorectal cancer study groupxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancerxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of non-metastatic high risk hormone-sensitive prostate cancerxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancervyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathynew drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateproposed indicationdacomitiniba pan-human epidermal growth factor receptor (her) tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with estimated glomerular filtration rate (egfr) activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfjlorlatinib (pf-06463922)a next generation alk/ros1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more alk inhibitorspf-06425090a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent clostridium difficile colitispf-05280586(a)a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)pf-06439535(b)a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)pf-06410293(c)a potential biosimilar to humira® (adalimumab)rivipansel (gmi-1070)a pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from glycomimetics inc.somatrogon (pf-06836922)a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in children, which is being developed in collaboration with opkosomatrogon (pf-06836922)a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developedin collaboration with opkotalazoparib (mdv3800)an oral parp inhibitor for the treatment of patients with germline breast cancer susceptibility gene brca mutated advanced breast cancertanezumaban anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with lilly(a) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen ma inc.(b) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(c) humira® is a registered trademark of abbvie biotechnology ltd.additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.73costs and expensesthe changes in expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the february 2017 sale of his. the operating results of his are included in our operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for the third quarter of 2017 do not reflect his global operations, while operating results for the third quarter of 2016 reflect three months of his global operations. operating results for the first nine months of 2017 include approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations, while operating results for the first nine months of 2016 reflect nine months of his global operations.cost of sales  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 % change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 % changecost of sales $2,847 $3,085 (8) $7,980 $9,111 (12)as a percentage of revenues 21.6% 23.6%   20.5% 23.2%  cost of sales decreased 8% in the third quarter of 2017, and 12% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to:•the favorable impact of the sale of his global operations (which carried a higher cost of sales than other products) of $152 million in the third quarter of 2017, and $433 million in the first nine months of 2017; •the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $223 million and the favorable offset of hedging gains of $66 million, both in the first nine months of 2017;•the nonrecurring unfavorable impact of $4 million in the third quarter of 2016 and $216 million in the first nine months of 2016 of acquired hospira inventory, which is measured at fair value on the acquisition date and was amortized over the turn of the related inventory;•recognition of synergies related to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; and•a favorable change in product mix, including an operational decline in the sip portfolio and the favorability attributed to products that have lost exclusivity,partially offset by:•$55 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which our puerto rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs to date, all of which resulted from the recent hurricanes in puerto rico.the decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter of 2017 and the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, was primarily due to all of the factors discussed above, as well as an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales.selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 % change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,500 $3,559 (2) $10,233 $10,414 (2)as a percentage of revenues 26.6% 27.3%   26.3% 26.6%  si&a expenses decreased 2% in the third quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to:•lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and lower expenses associated with products that recently lost marketing exclusivity;•the favorable impact of the sale of his global operations of $39 million;•lower spending for certain products, primarily prevnar 13/prevenar 13; and•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $11 million,partially offset by:•additional investment across several of our key products, primarily eucrisa, ibrance and xtandi; and•increased spending for biosimilars, primarily related to the u.s. launch of inflectra.si&a expenses decreased 2% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to:•the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable of approximately $265 million, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter of 2016; 74•lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses associated with products that recently lost marketing exclusivity and certain other expenses related to disputes in the ordinary course of business;•lower spending for certain products, primarily prevnar 13/prevenar 13;•the favorable impact of the sale of his global operations of $95 million; and•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $78 million,partially offset by:•additional investment across several of our key products, primarily eucrisa, ibrance, xtandi and xeljanz;•increased spending for biosimilars, primarily related to the u.s. launch of inflectra; and•an increase in charitable contributions.research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %changeresearch and development expenses $1,859 $1,881 (1) $5,346 $5,360 —as a percentage of revenues 14.1% 14.4%   13.8% 13.7% r&d expenses decreased 1% in the third quarter of 2017 and were relatively flat in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to:•lower expenses due to the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016; •the close-out of certain post-marketing clinical trials; and •the favorable impact of the sale of his global operations,partially offset by:•increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily clinical trial spend on medivation assets, as well as, in the third quarter of 2017, increased costs associated with our immuno-oncology development programs;•lower development funding credits primarily related to the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016;•an expense of $75 million resulting from our may 2017 agreement with sangamo to develop and commercialize gene therapy programs for hemophilia a;•increased costs associated with our c. difficile vaccine program, which initiated a phase 3 clinical study in march 2017; and•increased costs associated with our tanezumab development program.for additional information on cost of sales, si&a and r&d expenses by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.amortization of intangible assets  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %changeamortization of intangible assets $1,177 $968 22 $3,571 $2,934 22as a percentage of revenues 8.9% 7.4%   9.2% 7.5%  amortization of intangible assets increased 22% in the third quarter of 2017 and 22% in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the same periods in 2016, primarily due to the inclusion of amortization expense of approximately $221 million (pre-tax) in the third quarter of 2017 and approximately $751 million (pre-tax) in the first nine months of 2017 related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired from medivation and anacor, partially offset by assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives. see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.75restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %changerestructuring charges $91 $404 (77) $150 $574 (74)transaction costs (14) 54 * 4 114 (97)integration costs 73 74 (1) 224 300 (26)restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 149 531 (72) 377 988 (62)total additional depreciation—asset restructuring 39 47 (17) 74 151 (51)total implementation costs 57 78 (27) 150 202 (26)costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(a) $245 $655 (63) $601 $1,341 (55)(a) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses and/or selling, informational and administrative expenses, as appropriate. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.in connection with our acquisition of hospira, we are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. we expect to achieve $1 billion of annual cost savings by 2018 in connection with the hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million, and have achieved approximately $700 million of cost savings through october 1, 2017. the one-time costs to generate the savings are expected to be approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million for full-year 2015 associated with the return of acquired ipr&d rights), incurred for up to a three-year period post-acquisition.in 2016, we substantially completed previously disclosed cost-reduction initiatives begun in 2014 associated with our global commercial structure reorganization, manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiatives, and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives across the enterprise. through december 31, 2016, we incurred $3.1 billion (pre-tax) in total costs for the 2014-2016 program. the cumulative ongoing annual cost savings associated with the 2014-2016 program (but not including expected cost savings associated with the hospira acquisition), are approximately $3.1 billion. these savings were recognized, for the most part, through the end of 2016. however, savings from costs incurred in the last half of 2016 are expected to largely occur in 2017 and are reflected in our 2017 financial guidance.new cost-reduction/productivity initiatives—2017 through 2019 activitiesas a result of the evaluation performed in connection with our decision in september 2016 to not pursue, at that time, splitting ih and eh into two separate publicly-traded companies, we have identified new opportunities to potentially achieve greater optimization and efficiency to become more competitive in our business. therefore, we have initiated new enterprise-wide cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, which we expect to complete by the end of 2019. these initiatives will encompass all areas of our cost base and will include further centralization of our corporate and platform functions and optimization of our manufacturing plant network to support ih and eh products and pipelines, as well as activities in other areas where opportunities are identified. the action plans related to these new initiatives are underway and, in order to achieve targeted savings of approximately $1.3 billion by 2020, we expect to incur total costs of approximately $1.0 billion over the next three years. of this amount, we expect about 80% to be manufacturing operations related and we expect about 20% of the total charges will be non-cash. for additional information about these programs and expected and actual total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. the expected cost savings in 2017 associated with these activities are reflected in our 2017 financial guidance.in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.other (income)/deductions—net  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %changeother (income)/deductions––net $51 $1,417 (96)% $(16) $2,815 **calculation not meaningful.76for information about the components of other (income)/deductions—net, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.provision for taxes on income  three months ended nine months ended  (millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %change october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %changeprovision for taxes on income $727 $249 * $2,287 $1,109 *effective tax rate on continuing operations 20.3% 15.5%   20.1% 14.6%  *calculation not meaningful.for information about our effective tax rate and the events and circumstances contributing to the changes between periods, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. because adjusted income is an important internal measurement for pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income, certain components of adjusted income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (otc) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. also, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information. similarly, we have defined the adjusted income components as cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of intangible assets and other (income)/deductions––net, each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. we have defined adjusted diluted earnings per share as earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure, the adjusted income component measures and the adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for u.s. gaap net income, u.s. gaap net income components or u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share. the following are examples of how the adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information.adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-gaap financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. because of their non-standardized definitions, adjusted income and its components (unlike u.s. gaap net income and its components) and adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. a limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its 77effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a publicly-traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans.see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 and 2016 below.purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with wyeth (acquired in 2009), hospira (acquired in 2015), anacor (acquired in june 2016) and medivation (acquired in september 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. for example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.78reconciliations of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  three months ended october 1, 2017in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $13,168 $— $— $— $— $13,168cost of sales 2,847 (28) (26) — (92) 2,699selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,500 — — — (22) 3,478research and development expenses 1,859 1 — — (9) 1,851amortization of intangible assets 1,177 (1,120) — — — 57restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 149 — (129) — (21) —other (income)/deductions––net 51 (7) — — (305) (261)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,585 1,154 155 — 449 5,343provision for taxes on income(b) 727 306 72 — 161 1,267income from continuing operations 2,858 848 83 — 288 4,077discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 18 — — — — 18net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,840 848 83 — 288 4,059earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.47 0.14 0.01 — 0.05 0.67  nine months ended october 1, 2017in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $38,843 $— $— $— $— $38,843cost of sales 7,980 (45) (38) — (168) 7,729selling, informational and administrative expenses 10,233 (15) — — (67) 10,151research and development expenses 5,346 7 — — (26) 5,326amortization of intangible assets 3,571 (3,438) — — — 133restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 377 — (309) — (68) —other (income)/deductions––net (16) (35) — — (468) (519)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 11,351 3,527 347 — 797 16,023provision for taxes on income(b) 2,287 990 137 — 263 3,677income from continuing operations 9,064 2,537 211 — 534 12,345discontinued operations––net of tax 1 — — (1) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 32 — — — — 32net income attributable to pfizer inc. 9,034 2,537 211 (1) 534 12,313earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 1.49 0.42 0.03 — 0.09 2.03see end of tables for notes (a) and (b).79  three months ended october 2, 2016in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $13,045 $— $— $— $— $13,045cost of sales 3,085 (32) (3) — (93) 2,957selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,559 (5) — — (23) 3,531research and development expenses 1,881 — — — (8) 1,873amortization of intangible assets 968 (936) — — — 32restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 531 — (277) — (254) —other (income)/deductions––net 1,417 6 — — (1,590) (168)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 1,604 966 280 — 1,969 4,819provision for taxes on income(b), (c) 249 366 73 — 370 1,058income from continuing operations(c) 1,355 600 207 — 1,599 3,761discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests — — — — — —net income attributable to pfizer inc.(c) 1,355 600 207 — 1,599 3,761earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted(c) 0.22 0.10 0.03 — 0.26 0.61  nine months ended october 2, 2016in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $39,196 $— $— $— $— $39,196cost of sales 9,111 (284) (3) — (240) 8,584selling, informational and administrative expenses 10,414 (13) — — (59) 10,342research and development expenses 5,360 1 — — (24) 5,336amortization of intangible assets 2,934 (2,841) — — — 94restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 988 — (595) — (393) —other (income)/deductions––net 2,815 33 — — (3,395) (547)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 7,575 3,103 598 — 4,112 15,388provision for taxes on income(b), (c) 1,109 962 47 — 1,377 3,496income from continuing operations(c) 6,465 2,141 550 — 2,735 11,892discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 25 — — — — 25net income attributable to pfizer inc.(c) 6,440 2,141 550 — 2,735 11,867earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted(c) 1.04 0.35 0.09 — 0.44 1.92(a) for details of adjustments, see “details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income” below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 23.7% in the third quarter of 2017, compared with 22.0% in the third quarter of 2016. the increase was primarily due to an unfavorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business. the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 22.9% in the first nine months of 2017, compared with 22.7% in the first nine months of 2016. the increase was primarily due to a decrease in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, partially offset by a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business.(c) gaap reported and non-gaap adjusted amounts for the three and nine months ended october 2, 2016 have been revised from previously reported amounts to reflect the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of january 1, 2016, requiring: (i) excess tax benefits or deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividend equivalents) of share-based compensation to be recognized as a component of the provision for taxes on income (the net tax benefit was $35 million in the third quarter of 2016 and $85 million in the first nine months of 2016) and (ii) in the diluted net earnings per share calculation, when applying the treasury stock method for shares that could be repurchased, the assumed proceeds no longer include the amount of excess tax benefit. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1b. adoption of new accounting standards in pfizer’s 2016 financial report.80details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016purchase accounting adjustments        amortization, depreciation and other(a) $1,126 $934 $3,482 $2,819cost of sales 28 32 45 284total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 1,154 966 3,527 3,103income taxes(b) (306) (366) (990) (962)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 848 600 2,537 2,141acquisition-related costs        restructuring charges(c) 70 150 82 181transaction costs(c) (14) 54 4 114integration costs(c) 73 73 224 300additional depreciation––asset restructuring(d) 26 3 38 3total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 155 280 347 598income taxes(e) (72) (73) (137) (47)total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 83 207 211 550discontinued operations        total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc.(f) — — (1) —certain significant items        restructuring charges(g) 21 254 68 393implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(h) 69 122 185 350certain legal matters, net(i) 183 (40) 191 506loss on sale and impairment on remeasurement of his net assets(i) (12) 1,422 52 1,422certain asset impairments(i) 127 126 127 1,073business and legal entity alignment costs(i) 16 69 54 180other(j) 45 17 119 189total certain significant items––pre-tax 449 1,969 797 4,112income taxes(k) (161) (370) (263) (1,377)total certain significant items––net of tax 288 1,599 534 2,735total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $1,219 $2,406 $3,280 $5,426(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. (c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs. restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. transaction costs represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.(d) included in cost of sales. represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions.(e) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the nine months ended october 2, 2016 were unfavorably impacted by the remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities resulting from plant network restructuring activities.(f) included in discontinued operations––net of tax.(g) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions. included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). (h) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($38 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($22 million) and research and development expenses ($9 million). for the three months ended october 2, 2016, virtually all included in cost of sales ($89 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($23 million) and research and development expenses ($8 million). for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($113 million), selling, informational and administrative 81expenses ($46 million) and research and development expenses ($26 million). for the nine months ended october 2, 2016, virtually all included in cost of sales ($269 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($56 million) and research and development expenses ($22 million).(i) included in other (income)/deductions—net (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net).(j) for the three months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($54 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($9 million income. for the three months ended october 2, 2016, included in cost of sales ($4 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($13 million). for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, included in cost of sales ($55 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($21 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($43 million). for the nine months ended october 2, 2016, included in cost of sales ($29 million income), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($3 million), research and development expenses ($2 million) and other (income)/deductions––net ($213 million). in the three months and nine months ended october 1, 2017, includes $55 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which our puerto rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs to date, all of which resulted from the recent hurricanes in puerto rico and are included in cost of sales. for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, includes a net loss of $30 million related to the sale of our 40% ownership investment in teuto, including the extinguishment of a put option for the remaining 60% ownership interest. for the nine months ended october 2, 2016, primarily includes $150 million paid to allergan for reimbursement of allergan’s expenses associated with the terminated transaction.(k) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the third quarter of 2016 was unfavorably impacted by the tax effects of an impairment charge related to the write-down of the his net assets to fair value less estimated costs to sell, mainly related to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes, and the jurisdictional mix of intangible assets. the first nine months of 2016 were favorably impacted by benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in february 2016 and finalized in april 2016 to resolve certain claims related to protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position, as well as benefits associated with our venezuela operations, partially offset by the unfavorable tax effects of the impairment charge related to the write-down of the his net assets to fair value less estimated costs to sell, mainly related to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes, and the jurisdictional mix of intangible assets.82analysis of operating segment informationthe following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments—the ih segment and the eh segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information, as well as the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” section of the md&a in our form 10-q for the quarter ended april 2, 2017.as described in note 1a, acquisitions and divestitures have impacted our results of operations in 2017 and 2016. the following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  third quarter of 2017(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $8,118 $5,050 $— $13,168 $— $13,168cost of sales 1,082 1,448 170 2,699 147 2,847% of revenue 13.3%28.7%*20.5%*21.6%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,736 727 1,016 3,478 22 3,500research and development expenses 639 249 964 1,851 8 1,859amortization of intangible assets 40 17 — 57 1,120 1,177restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 149 149other (income)/deductions––net (253) (155) 147 (261) 312 51income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $4,875 $2,765 $(2,297) $5,343 $(1,759) $3,585  nine months ended october 1, 2017(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $23,204 $15,639 $— $38,843 $— $38,843cost of sales 2,912 4,319 497 7,729 252 7,980% of revenue 12.6% 27.6% * 19.9% * 20.5%selling, informational and administrative expenses 4,914 2,212 3,026 10,151 82 10,233research and development expenses 1,709 755 2,862 5,326 20 5,346amortization of intangible assets 90 43 — 133 3,438 3,571restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 377 377other (income)/deductions––net (611) (248) 341 (519) 503 (16)income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $14,190 $8,558 $(6,725) $16,023 $(4,671) $11,351  third quarter of 2016(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $7,332 $5,712 $— $13,045 $— $13,045cost of sales 1,039 1,546 372 2,957 128 3,085% of revenue 14.2%27.1%*22.7%*23.6%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,647 813 1,071 3,531 28 3,559research and development expenses 671 292 911 1,873 8 1,881amortization of intangible assets 25 7 — 32 936 968restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 531 531other (income)/deductions––net (237) (73) 142 (168) 1,584 1,417income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $4,187 $3,128 $(2,496) $4,819 $(3,215) $1,604see end of tables for notes (a) through (d).83  nine months ended october 2, 2016(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $21,471 $17,725 $— $39,196 $— $39,196cost of sales 2,930 4,677 977 8,584 527 9,111% of revenue 13.6% 26.4% * 21.9% * 23.2%selling, informational and administrative expenses 4,947 2,435 2,960 10,342 72 10,414research and development expenses 1,815 876 2,645 5,336 23 5,360amortization of intangible assets 74 20 — 94 2,841 2,934restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 988 988other (income)/deductions––net (764) (267) 484 (547) 3,362 2,815income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $12,470 $9,985 $(7,066) $15,388 $(7,813) $7,575(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment.(b) other comprises the costs included in our adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following:  third quarter of 2017  other business activities   (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 28 142 170selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 993 23 1,016research and development expenses 568 193 194 8 964amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (2) — 167 (18) 147loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(566) $(193) $(1,382) $(156) $(2,297)  nine months ended october 1, 2017  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — (3) 500 497selling, informational and administrative expenses — (1) 2,995 31 3,026research and development expenses 1,674 560 616 12 2,862amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (29) — 339 31 341loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(1,645) $(559) $(3,948) $(573) $(6,725)84  third quarter of 2016  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 104 268 372selling, informational and administrative expenses — 1 1,073 (3) 1,071research and development expenses 575 172 169 (5) 911amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net 5 — 191 (54) 142loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(580) $(173) $(1,537) $(206) $(2,496)  nine months ended october 2, 2016  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 194 783 977selling, informational and administrative expenses — 1 2,910 48 2,960research and development expenses 1,629 487 523 6 2,645amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (22) — 590 (83) 484loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(1,608) $(488) $(4,217) $(753) $(7,066)(i) wrd—the r&d expenses managed by our wrd organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our ih business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the ih segment via the gpd organization for possible clinical and commercial development. r&d spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. the wrd organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, including eh r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities.(ii) gpd––the costs associated with our gpd organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects.(iii) corporate—the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments. effective in the first quarter of 2017, corporate also includes the costs associated with our pfizer medical organization (medical), previously reported as part of other business activities. medical is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations. we have reclassified approximately $33 million and $94 million of medical costs from other business activities to corporate in the third quarter and first nine months of 2016, respectively, to conform to the current period presentation.we recognized a $4 million loss in the third quarter of 2017 and a $67 million gain in the first nine months of 2017 as an offset to cost of sales related to foreign currency forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated forecasted intercompany inventory sales. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7f. derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.(iv) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs (which include manufacturing variances associated with production).for information purposes only, the following tables present reconciliations of our segment operating results to segment operating results including estimated other costs generally associated with each segment. while we do not manage our segments or have performance goals under such an allocated manner, we believe that some investors may find this information useful in their analyses. the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 85for information purposes only, for the first nine months of 2017, we estimate that other costs, as described above, for combined wrd and gpd costs of $2.2 billion, and combined corporate and other unallocated costs of $4.0 billion after excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $704 million for the first nine months of 2017 in other (income)/deductions––net); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $146 million for the first nine months of 2017 in other (income)/deductions––net), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows:  nine months ended october 1, 2017    estimated other costs associated with ih(ii)  (millions of dollars) innovative health non-gaap adjusted(i), (iii) estimated wrd/gpd(ii) estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii) innovative health with estimated other costs associated withinnovative healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues $23,204 $— $— $23,204cost of sales 2,912 — 68 2,980selling, informational and administrative expenses 4,914 (1) 1,688 6,601research and development expenses 1,709 2,220 575 4,504amortization of intangible assets 90 — — 90restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (611) (29) (84) (725)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 14,190 (2,190) (2,246) 9,754  nine months ended october 1, 2017    estimated other costs associated with eh(ii)  (millions of dollars) essential healthnon-gaap adjusted(i), (iii) estimated wrd/gpd(ii) estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii) essential health with estimated other costs associated withessential healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues $15,639 $— $— $15,639cost of sales 4,319 — 429 4,749selling, informational and administrative expenses 2,212 — 1,338 3,550research and development expenses 755 15 53 823amortization of intangible assets 43 — — 43restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (248) — (104) (353)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 8,558 (15) (1,716) 6,827(i) amount represents the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. see note (a) above for more information.(ii) represents costs not assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. for a description of these other costs and business activities, see note (b) above.•wrd/gpd––the information provided for wrd and gpd was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the r&d projects associated with each operating segment. •corporate/other unallocated––the information provided for corporate and other unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from research and development and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification and estimates. management believes that the allocations of corporate and other unallocated costs are reasonable.the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented.(iii) see note (c) below for an explanation of our non-gaap adjusted financial measure.(c) see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a for a definition of these “adjusted income” components.(d) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as restructuring or legal charges), that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.86third quarter of 2017 vs. third quarter of 2016innovative health operating segmentrevenuesih revenues increased $786 million, or 11%, to $8.1 billion, reflecting an 11% operational increase. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on ih revenues.the following provides an analysis of the increase in ih revenues:(millions of dollars)  ih revenues, for the three months ended october 2, 2016 $7,332   operational growth/(decline):  continued growth from key brands including ibrance and eliquis globally, as well as lyrica and xeljanz, both primarily in the u.s.  751growth in xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation)  148lower revenues for viagra in the u.s. primarily due to wholesaler destocking in advance of anticipated generic competition beginning in december 2017 (91)lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition  (89)decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues. u.s. revenues decreased primarily due to the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year quarter, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. international revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets and the launch of prevenar 13 in china for the pediatric indication. (16)other operational factors, net 95operational growth, net 799   unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (13)ih revenues increase 786ih revenues, for the three months ended october 1, 2017 $8,118total ih revenues from emerging markets increased $167 million, or 18%, to $1.1 billion on both a reported and operational basis. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on total ih revenues from emerging markets.costs and expenses•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 0.8 percentage points, primarily driven by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenue, which have no associated cost of sales, partially offset by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to ibrance, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.•the increase in cost of sales of 4% was primarily driven by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to ibrance, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by a favorable change in product mix.•the increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 5% was primarily driven by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily eucrisa, ibrance and xtandi. the increase was partially offset by lower spending for certain other products, primarily prevnar 13/prevenar 13, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange.•the decrease in research and development expenses of 5% primarily reflects:◦the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by increased costs associated with:◦our oncology programs, primarily clinical trial spend on legacy medivation assets and our immuno-oncology development programs;◦our c. difficile vaccine program, which initiated a phase 3 clinical study in march 2017; and◦our tanezumab development program.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects: ◦the addition of $73 million in xtandi royalty income;◦a $54 million increase in dividend income from our investment in viiv; and◦a $50 million milestone payment received for an out-licensed product,partially offset by:◦lower royalty income for enbrel of $139 million, resulting from the expiration on october 31, 2016 of the 36-month royalty period under the collaboration agreement for enbrel in the u.s. and canada (the collaboration period under the agreement expired on october 31, 2013).87essential health operating segmentrevenueseh revenues decreased $662 million, or 12%, to $5.0 billion, reflecting an 11% operational decrease, of which 5% operationally was due to the sale of his. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on eh revenues. the following provides an analysis of the decrease in eh revenues:(millions of dollars)  eh revenues, for the three months ended october 2, 2016 $5,712   disposition-related operational impact:  financial results in the third quarter of 2017 do not reflect any contribution from his global operations, compared to the inclusion of three months of his global operations in the same period in 2016 (february 2017 sale)  (280)   other operational growth/(decline):  decline from peri-loe products, including declines in pristiq in the u.s., which lost marketing exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017, as well as lyrica and vfend, both primarily in developed europe (220)decline from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (182)growth from biosimilars 55other operational factors, net 6operational decline, net (621)   unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (41)eh revenues decrease (662)eh revenues, for the three months ended october 1, 2017 $5,050total eh revenues in developed markets decreased $749 million, or 18%, to $3.3 billion, reflecting an 18% operational decline, of which 6% operationally was due to the unfavorable impact of the sale of his. total eh revenues in developed markets were also negatively impacted by a 33% operational decline from peri-loe products and a 20% operational decline from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio primarily due to legacy hospira product supply shortages in the u.s., partially offset by 65% operational growth from biosimilars. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on total eh revenues in developed markets.total eh revenues from emerging markets increased $87 million, or 5%, to $1.7 billion, reflecting 7% operational growth, primarily driven by 6% operational growth from the legacy established products portfolio and 14% operational growth from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1%. excluding his from both periods, eh revenues in emerging markets grew 8% operationally.costs and expensesthe changes in eh expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the february 2017 sale of his. the operating results of his are included in eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for eh for the third quarter of 2017 do not reflect his global operations, while operating results for eh for the third quarter of 2016 reflect three months of his global operations.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 1.6 percentage points primarily due to cost increases reflecting the shift to eh of certain legacy hospira costs that were previously unallocated to eh as a result of harmonizing the hospira cost policy, and the impact of product losses of exclusivity, partially offset by the favorable impact of the sale of his, which had a higher cost of sales than the other eh products.•the decrease in cost of sales of 6% was primarily due to:◦the favorable impact of the sale of his, which had a higher cost of sales than the other eh products;◦a net decrease in royalty expense and, to a lesser extent,◦lower volumes driven by, among other things, the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals (sip) portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s.,partially offset by:◦cost increases reflecting the shift to eh of certain legacy hospira costs that were previously unallocated to eh as a result of harmonizing the hospira cost policy.•selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 11%, mainly due to lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and lower expenses associated with products that recently lost marketing exclusivity, as well as the favorable impact of the sale of his, partially offset by increased spending for biosimilars, primarily related to the u.s. launch of inflectra. 88•research and development expenses decreased 15%, primarily due to the close-out of certain post-marketing clinical trials and the favorable impact of the sale of his.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects income from resolution of a contract disagreement and the favorable impact of foreign exchange.first nine months of 2017 vs. first nine months of 2016innovative health operating segmentrevenuesih revenues increased $1,733 million, or 8%, to $23.2 billion, reflecting a 9% operational increase. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on ih revenues.the following provides an analysis of the increase in ih revenues:(millions of dollars)  ih revenues, for the nine months ended october 2, 2016 $21,471   operational growth/(decline):  continued growth from key brands including ibrance and eliquis globally, as well as lyrica and xeljanz, both primarily in the u.s.  2,102growth in xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation)  420lower revenues for enbrel, primarily in most developed europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition  (353)decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues. u.s. revenues decreased primarily due to the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the first nine months of 2016, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. international revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets and the launch of prevenar 13 in china for the pediatric indication. (213)lower revenues for viagra in the u.s. primarily due to lower market growth (186)other operational factors, net 113operational growth, net 1,883   unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (150)ih revenues increase 1,733ih revenues, for the nine months ended october 1, 2017 $23,204total ih revenues from emerging markets increased $377 million, or 14%, to $3.1 billion, reflecting a 15% operational increase. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on total ih revenues from emerging markets.costs and expenses•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 1.1 percentage points primarily driven by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenue, which have no associated cost of sales, partially offset by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to ibrance.•the decrease in cost of sales of 1% was primarily driven by favorable product mix and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to ibrance.•the decrease in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 1% was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter of 2016, lower spending for certain products, primarily prevnar 13/prevenar 13, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily eucrisa, ibrance, xtandi and xeljanz.•the decrease in research and development expenses of 6% primarily reflects:◦the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by:◦increased costs associated with:▪our oncology programs, including clinical trial spend on legacy medivation assets;▪our c. difficile vaccine program, which initiated a phase 3 clinical study in march 2017; and▪our tanezumab development program; and◦an expense of $28 million, representing ih’s portion of the $75 million expense resulting from our may 2017 agreement with sangamo to develop and commercialize gene therapy programs for hemophilia a.89•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects:◦lower royalty income for enbrel of $414 million, resulting from the expiration on october 31, 2016 of the 36-month royalty period under the collaboration agreement for enbrel in the u.s. and canada (the collaboration period under the agreement expired on october 31, 2013),partially offset by:◦an increase of $204 million in dividend income from our investment in viiv;◦the addition of $160 million of xtandi royalty income; and◦a $50 million milestone payment received for an out-licensed product.essential health operating segmentrevenueseh revenues decreased $2.1 billion, or 12%, to $15.6 billion, reflecting a 11% operational decrease, of which 4% operationally was due to the sale of his. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on eh revenues.the following provides an analysis of the decrease in eh revenues:(millions of dollars)  eh revenues, for the nine months ended october 2, 2016 $17,725   disposition-related operational impact:  approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations in the first nine months of 2017, compared to nine months of his global operations in the same period in 2016 (february 2017 sale)  (783)   other operational growth/(decline):  decline from peri-loe products, including declines in pristiq in the u.s., which lost marketing exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017, as well as lyrica and vfend, both primarily in developed europe (779)decline in the legacy established products portfolio (250)decline from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s. (169)growth from biosimilars 143other operational factors, net (26)operational decline, net (1,864)   unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (222)eh revenues decrease (2,086)eh revenues, for the nine months ended october 1, 2017 $15,639total eh revenues in developed markets decreased $2.2 billion, or 17%, to $10.5 billion, reflecting a 17% operational decline, of which 5% operationally was due to the unfavorable impact of the sale of his. total eh revenues in developed markets were also negatively impacted by a 36% operational decline from peri-loe products, a 7% operational decline in the legacy established products portfolio and a 9% operational decline from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, partially offset by 64% operational growth from biosimilars. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1%.total eh revenues from emerging markets increased $131 million, or 3%, to $5.1 billion, reflecting 6% operational growth, primarily driven by 5% operational growth from the legacy established products portfolio and 15% operational growth from the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 3%. excluding his in both periods, eh revenues in emerging markets grew 7% operationally.costs and expensesthe changes in eh expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the february 2017 sale of his. the operating results of his are included in eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for eh for the first nine months of 2017 include approximately one month of his domestic operations and approximately two months of his international operations, while operating results for eh for the first nine months of 2016 reflect nine months of his global operations.90•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 1.2 percentage points, primarily due to cost increases reflecting the shift to eh of certain legacy hospira costs that were previously unallocated to eh as a result of harmonizing the hospira cost policy, and the impact of product losses of exclusivity, partially offset by the favorable impact of the sale of his, which had a higher cost of sales than the other eh products, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange.•the decrease in cost of sales of 8% primarily reflects;◦the favorable impact of the sale of his, which had a higher cost of sales than the other eh products;◦the favorable impact of foreign exchange;◦a net decrease in royalty expense and, to a lesser extent,◦lower volumes driven by, among other things, the sip portfolio, primarily due to legacy hospira product shortages in the u.s., partially offset by:◦cost increases reflecting the shift to eh of certain legacy hospira costs that were previously unallocated to eh as a result of harmonizing the hospira cost policy. •selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 9% primarily due to lower advertising, promotional, and field force expenses associated with products that recently lost marketing exclusivity and certain other expenses related to disputes in the ordinary course of business, as well as the favorable impact of the sale of his and the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by increased spending for biosimilars, primarily related to the u.s. launch of inflectra. •research and development expenses decreased 14%, primarily due to the close-out of certain post-marketing clinical trials and the favorable impact of the sale of his.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the non-recurrence of a resolution of a contract disagreement in the first quarter of 2016, partially offset by a gain on the redemption of an acquired bond.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomechanges in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 reflect the following: •for foreign currency translation adjustments, net, for the third quarter of 2017, primarily reflects the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, canadian dollar and australian dollar; for the first nine months of 2017, primarily reflects the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, canadian dollar, swedish krona and the australian dollar. for the first nine months of 2017, also includes the reclassification of amounts related to the agreement to sell our 40% ownership investment in teuto. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2d. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments: equity-method investments.•for unrealized holding losses on derivative financial instruments, net and unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities, net, reflect the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of realized amounts into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, primarily reflects (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in other comprehensive income; (ii) the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange; and (iii) an increase in actuarial losses due to an interim remeasurement. the first nine months of 2017 also reflects the remeasurement gain due to the settlement of the hospira u.s. qualified defined benefit plan. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.for information about certain balances in trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, see also the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a.for information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.91for information related to changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 6. accumulated other comprehensive loss, excluding noncontrolling interests. the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of october 1, 2017, compared to december 31, 2016, generally reflect, among other things, the impact of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, measurement period adjustments related to the acquisition of medivation, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the following explanations exclude the impact of the acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, measurement period adjustments related to the acquisition of medivation, as well as the sale of his to icu medical and foreign exchange (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments and note 9. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill for additional information).•for trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business.•for inventories, the change reflects the build of inventory primarily for and in advance of new or potential product launches and increases to meet targeted levels for certain products in the normal course of business, including those related to demand.•for other current assets, the change reflects a decrease in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments, as well as the timing of receipt and payments in the normal course of business, partially offset by an increase in vat receivable balances due to a change in our supply chain.•for pp&e, the change primarily reflects depreciation during the period and reductions due to restructuring efforts, partially offset by capital additions in the normal course of business.•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change primarily reflects amortization for the period, partially offset by intangible assets recorded in connection with the eu and u.s. approvals of besponsa. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7e. financial instruments: other noncurrent liabilities.•for other noncurrent assets, the change reflects a decrease in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments, partially offset by net increases in the normal course of business.•for trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business, including the impact of efforts to improve working capital efficiencies.•for accrued compensation and related items, the decrease reflects normal bonus payments made to employees and a reduction related to the termination of a hospira u.s. qualified defined benefit pension plan, partially offset by current year’s accruals. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for other current liabilities, the change reflects a decrease in liabilities associated with:◦payment for consideration transferred for medivation;◦payments for restructuring activities and payments for liabilities related to the closeout of bococizumab clinical studies; and◦our derivative financial instruments, partially offset by:◦an increase related to accrued healthcare fees;◦an accrual for net funds due to icu medical for net economic benefit payments (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments: sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh)); and ◦the impact of timing of payments in the normal course of business.•for pension benefit obligations, net, the decrease primarily reflects the $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in january 2017 and payments to plan participants.•for other noncurrent liabilities, the change reflects a decrease in liabilities associated with:◦an increase in reclassification of short-term liabilities;◦our derivative financial instruments; and◦the reversal of a contingent liability as a result of exiting our investment in teuto (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2d. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments: equity method investments), 92partially offset by:◦an increase of $351 million to record obligations in connection with the eu and u.s. approvals of besponsa (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7e. financial instruments: other noncurrent liabilities); ◦an increase in deferred revenue from a milestone payment received from merck for the ertugliflozin collaboration agreement (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2c. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments: collaboration arrangement); and◦accruals in the normal course of business.•for treasury stock, the change reflects $5 billion paid to citibank in february 2017 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for additional information.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows   nine months ended  (millions of dollars) october 1, 2017 october 2, 2016 %changecash provided by/(used in):      operating activities(a) $9,728 $10,151 (4)investing activities 38 (4,704) *financing activities(a) (9,650) (6,915) 40effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 67 (79) *net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $184 $(1,547) **calculation not meaningful.(a) amounts for the nine months ended october 2, 2016 have been revised from previously reported amounts to reflect the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of january 1, 2016, that requires that cash flows present (i) excess tax benefits as other tax accounts, net as part of operating activities, rather than financing activities on a prospective basis beginning in the year of adoption, and (ii) cash paid by us when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes as a cash outflow from financing activities, rather than operating activities and is reflected in the year of adoption. the year-to-date excess tax benefit was $87 million in the first nine months of 2016. for cash paid by us for withholding purposes, $134 million for the first nine months of 2016 is presented as financing activities in the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows (see notes to consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards).in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $9.7 billion in the first nine months of 2017, compared to $10.2 billion in the same period in 2016. the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business, as well as an increase in benefit plan contributions.in the first nine months of 2017, the line item other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items, the decrease in the provision for bad debt expense, an increase in dividends from an equity-method investment reclassified to investing activities in 2017 and an increase in net gains on sales of pp&e.in the first nine months of 2017 and 2016, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and noncurrent liabilities. for the first nine months of 2016, this line item also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain legal claims accrued in prior periods, including for protonix-related matters. for additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a. for additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances, see also “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” in this md&a. 93investing activitiesour net cash provided by investing activities was $38 million in the first nine months of 2017, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $4.7 billion in the same period in 2016. the change in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to:•a decrease in cash used for acquisitions—cash paid of $1.0 billion, net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business in 2017 and substantially all of the remaining consideration for the medivation acquisition, compared to cash paid of $17.7 billion, net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisitions of medivation, bamboo and anacor in 2016 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement and equity-method investments: acquisitions); and•an increase in other investing activities, net, including dividends received from an equity-method investment,partially offset by:•less net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $12.2 billion in 2017 for cash needs.financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $9.6 billion in first nine months of 2017, compared to $6.9 billion in the same period in 2016. the change in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•$2.2 billion less proceeds raised from net short-term borrowings in the first nine months of 2017, compared to the first nine months of 2016; and•$5.8 billion cash dividends paid in the first nine months of 2017, compared to $5.5 billion in the same period in 2016,partially offset by:•the issuance of long-term debt of $5.3 billion in the first nine months of 2017, compared to $5.0 billion in the same period in 2016 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7d. financial instruments: long-term debt).analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. we continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. we target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our r&d activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;•share repurchases;•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both s&p and moody’s. see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities.94selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) october 1, 2017 december 31, 2016selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $2,779 $2,595short-term investments(a) 14,146 15,255long-term investments(a) 7,311 7,116  24,236 24,967debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 9,448 10,688long-term debt 34,503 31,398  43,951 42,085selected net financial liabilities(b) $(19,714) $(17,118)     working capital(c) $12,074 $7,834ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.43:1 1.25:1total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity per common share(d) $10.20 $9.81(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) the increase in selected net financial liabilities is primarily driven by (i) our decrease in short-term investments, the proceeds of which were used for various cash needs and (ii) the net increase in long-term debt. we retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high-quality financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. both moody’s and s&p rating agencies maintained our strong investment-grade corporate debt rating subsequent to the acquisitions of medivation and anacor. for additional information, see the “credit ratings” section of this md&a.(c) the increase in working capital is primarily due to the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, a decline in short-term borrowings and an increase in inventory related to new or potential products, partially offset by a decline in short-term investments used for various cash needs and the sale of his assets to icu medical.(d) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock).for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.on march 17, 2017, we completed a public offering of $1.065 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2047 with an interest rate of 4.20%, and on march 6, 2017, we completed a public offering of €4.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 0.23% (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7d. financial instruments: long-term debt).domestic and international short-term fundsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. we generally hold up to $10 billion of these short-term funds in u.s. tax jurisdictions. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). repatriation of overseas funds can result in additional u.s. federal, state and local income tax payments. we record u.s. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s., no accrual for u.s. taxes is provided.accounts receivablewe continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. historically, payments from a number of these european governments and government agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. specifically, we received delayed payments for 2016 revenues from the greek government; virtually all greece government receivables pertain to 2017 revenues. also, the greek government restructured its debt to other third parties in the third quarter of 2016. we determined our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect these events, and have $35 million in net receivables from the greek government as of october 1, 2017. reported revenues from all customers in greece for the nine months ended october 1, 2017 were $180 million. 95we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments).as of october 1, 2017, we had about $533 million in aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in italy, spain, greece and portugal where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $65 million, were as follows: $40 million in italy; $18 million in portugal; $4 million in greece; and $3 million in spain.although certain european governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs.we will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts.our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. for information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions included in our 2016 financial report.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debtdate of last rating change rating rating moody’s(a) p-1 a1 october 2009s&p(b) a-1+ aa october 2009(a) in september 2016, moody’s updated their credit outlook from negative outlook to stable.(b) in april 2016, s&p updated their credit outlook from negative watch to stable.debt capacitywe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. as of october 1, 2017, we had access to $7.8 billion of lines of credit, of which $689 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $7.7 billion were unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.0 billion at our request. also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2021, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.global economic conditions––generalthe global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. global economic conditions––u.k.in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as “brexit”. in january 2017, the u.k. prime minister announced a 12-point plan of negotiating objectives and confirmed that the u.k. government will not seek continued membership in the eu single market. in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the 96european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. this process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval of our products.we generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the u.k. in the first nine months of 2017. however, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu. in addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable.global economic conditions––venezuela operationsour venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. in the second quarter of 2015, the venezuelan government identified three official rates of exchange. these were the cencoex rate of 6.3; the sicad rate of 13.5 (as of november 2017); and the simadi rate of 3,345 (as of november 2017). effective in march 2016, the cencoex rate was replaced by the dipro rate of 10 (as of february 2017); the sicad rate ceased to be offered; and the simadi rate was planned to be replaced by the dicom rate. the venezuelan government continued to publish the simadi rate, which was commonly referred to as the dicom rate, and then began to publish the dicom rate beginning in august 2017. that simadi, now dicom, rate has grown from 206 in march 2016 to about 3,345 (as of november 2017). based on conditions in venezuela, we resolved that our venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation are no longer expected to be substantially settled at the venezuelan government cencoex official rate of 6.3 or the dipro official rate of 10, but at a rate of 500 at the end of the second quarter and third quarter of 2016, and 670 at the end of the fourth quarter of 2016, and at the end of the first and second quarters of 2017, and 2,640 at the end of the third quarter of 2017.we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the venezuelan currency or whether our use of the dicom rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. further, other potential actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically.on july 11, 2016, the venezuelan government administration announced a new program under a state of emergency decree that is intended to control the use of raw materials, production and distribution of products, specifically for medicines and foods. it is uncertain how this program will be applied to pfizer in venezuela. we continue to operate under adverse conditions in venezuela and have $6 million of net monetary assets and $40 million of non-monetary assets, excluding inventory carried at lower of cost or market, in venezuela at august 27, 2017, our international quarter-end.off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. these indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of october 1, 2017, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications were not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreementsour october 2014 $11 billion share-purchase plan was exhausted in the first quarter of 2017. in december 2015, the board of directors authorized an $11 billion share repurchase program, and share repurchases commenced thereunder in the first quarter of 2017.97on february 2, 2017, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. the following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced accelerated share repurchase agreements:  three months ended nine months ended(shares in millions, dollars in billions) october 1,2017 october 2,2016 october 1,2017(a) october 2,2016(b)shares of common stock purchased — — 150 154cost of purchase $— $— $5.0 $5.0(a) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q.(b) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on march 8, 2016. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 12. equity in our 2016 financial report.at october 1, 2017, our remaining share-purchase authorization was approximately $6.4 billion.dividends on common stockin september 2017, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.32 per share, payable on december 1, 2017, to shareholders of record at the close of business on november 10, 2017.new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of october 1, 2017the following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin may 2014, the fasb issued amended guidance related to revenue from contracts with customers. the new guidance introduces a new principles-based framework for revenue recognition and disclosure. since its issuance the fasb has issued six asus, amending the guidance and effective date, and the sec has rescinded certain related sec guidance; the most recent of these changes was issued in december 2016. january 1, 2018.  we have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this guidance across our various business arrangements and revenue-related activities, and do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our reported revenues in our consolidated financial statements, revenue recognition processes, or our internal controls. we are reviewing our disclosures for revenue recognition and do not anticipate significant changes will be needed to conform with the disclosure requirements of the new guidance.the interpretation and applicability of the new revenue recognition standard to collaboration arrangements in certain industries is still being assessed. we expect that milestone payments received in our collaboration agreements, which are recorded in other (income)/deductions––net, and currently amortized over the life of the agreement, will, for many arrangements, be amortized over the remaining development period or sooner, if there is a distinct and separable licensing component. we are required to apply the new rules to existing contracts as if the new principles had always existed, and therefore, upon adoption, we expect to record a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the adoption date in the range of $350 million to $550 million to accelerate what would have been future income under the current rules into prior periods. the financial statement impact on pre-tax income is expected to be less than $100 million in any future annual period.we continue to monitor additional changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the fasb, which may impact our current conclusions. in addition, we continue to monitor other changes, such as changes in our business, new collaboration arrangements, business combinations, etc., which may impact our current conclusions prior to the adoption date.98standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin january 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities.among other things, the new guidance makes the following targeted changes to existing guidance:1. requires certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. however, an entity may choose to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investment of the same issuer.2. requires a qualitative assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values to identify impairment.3. requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or in the accompanying notes to the financial statements.in september 2017, the fasb issued a proposed amendment to this new standard which is intended to clarify certain aspects of the guidance. january 1, 2018. we have substantially completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements, and will continue to assess events which may occur prior to adoption. as of october 1, 2017, we have $1.0 billion in available-for-sale equity securities and approximately $273 million of restricted stock and private equity securities which will be subject to the new rules. further, for the nine months ended october 1, 2017, we recognized $406 million of previously unrealized holding gains and $119 million of previously unrealized losses on available-for-sale equity securities in other comprehensive income, which would have been recorded to other (income)/ deductions––net under the new rules. the impact of adoption will be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings. we expect the adoption of this new accounting standard may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of equity investments. we do not expect that the proposed amendment, as currently drafted, will have any substantive impact to our assessment discussed above. we continue to monitor changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the fasb, which may impact our current conclusions.in august 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on the classification of certain transactions in the statement of cash flows. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we have substantially completed our review and will continue to assess events which may occur prior to adoption. retrospective application is required. upon adoption, we expect to reclassify approximately $362 million of cash outflows related to debt redemption in 2016 from operating activities to financing activities. we also expect to reclassify approximately $32 million of cash inflows from trust-owned life insurance contracts in 2016 from operating activities to investing activities. cash outflows from trust-owned life insurance contracts represent benefit payments and are classified as operating activities. in addition, although there is no impact on the presented historical comparative financial statements, the new guidance may impact the classification of certain cash flows related to contingent consideration in a business acquisition, depending on the ultimate settlement amount of the reported contingency liability.in october 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we have substantially completed our review and will continue to assess events which may occur prior to adoption. retrospective application is required. our restricted cash balances as of the end of 2016 were approximately $18.1 million of short-term restricted cash and $45.3 million of long-term restricted cash. our restricted cash balances as of october 1, 2017 were approximately $6.4 million of short-term restricted cash and $68.7 million of long-term restricted cash.in october 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on income tax accounting. the new guidance replaces the prohibition against recognizing current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party with a requirement to do so, unless the asset transferred is inventory.  january 1, 2018.  we have substantially completed our review and will continue to assess events which may occur prior to adoption. our analysis of the standard indicates that our estimate of the impact to our consolidated financial statements, using current assumptions, is not material. however, while we currently do not have any specific plans, we cannot predict intercompany asset transfers other than inventory that may occur in the future, as they are dependent on economic and operational factors that may change over time.for example, an acquisition might cause us to realign legal entities and to transfer assets between entities as we integrate an acquired company into pfizer. we anticipate that after adoption, our effective tax rate could be impacted by the immediate recognition of the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers other than inventory. the impact of adoption will be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings.in january 2017, the fasb issued new guidance to clarify the definition of a business. the new guidance provides a new framework for determining whether business development transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. if the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset, the transaction will not qualify for treatment as a business. the new guidance also requires that to be considered a business, a set of integrated activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs, without regard as to whether a market participant could replace missing elements. in addition, the new guidance narrows the definition of the term “output” to make it consistent with how outputs are described in the updated revenue recognition guidance. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we have substantially completed our review and will continue to assess events which may occur prior to adoption. the new accounting standard is applicable on a prospective basis upon adoption and therefore has no impact on completed transactions. we expect that subsequent to our anticipated adoption date of january 1, 2018, fewer transactions will be accounted for as business acquisitions (decreasing the amount of goodwill incurred and potentially increasing ipr&d expense) or disposals of a business. we will continue to monitor for changes in our business, and business combination or other transactions which might close after adoption and be impacted by these new standards.99standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin february 2017, the fasb issued amended guidance related to the derecognition of nonfinancial assets.  january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we have substantially completed our review and will continue to assess events which may occur prior to adoption. the new guidance applies to the full or partial sale or transfer of nonfinancial assets, including intangible assets, real estate and inventory, under which the gain or loss is the difference between the consideration received and the carrying value of the asset. the new guidance does not impact out-licensing arrangements. we are not expecting a material impact on existing transactions. we will continue to monitor for changes in our business and transactions which might be impacted by these new standards. the impact of adoption, if any, will be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings.in march 2017, the fasb issued guidance on the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost. under the new rules, entities that sponsor defined benefit plans will present net benefit cost as follows:1. service cost will be included in the same income statement line items where other employee compensation costs are reported.2. the other components of net benefit cost will be presented outside of income from operations, if such a subtotal is presented.3. only the service cost component will be capitalized, when applicable (for example, as a cost of inventory, internal-use software, or a self-constructed fixed asset).if a separate line item is used to present the other components of net benefit cost, it should have an appropriate description. if a separate line item or items is not used, the line item or items in the income statement where the other components of net benefit cost are included must be disclosed. january 1, 2018. we have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this new guidance. we anticipate that upon adoption, the net benefit costs other than service costs will be reclassified to other (income)/deductions-net from their current classification within cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, and research and development expenses. we expect to adopt the practical expedient which allows us to ignore capitalized pension expense in the retrospective adjustments in our statements of income. net benefit cost/(income) other than service costs was $154 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 and $89 million for the nine months ended october 1, 2017 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefits for further details). we are still assessing the impact on our results of operations for business segment reporting, changes in accounting processes, such as inventory standard costing methodologies, and policies. effective january 1, 2018, future accruals under the pfizer consolidated pension plan (our largest u.s. defined benefit plan), will freeze, and the pfizer defined contribution savings plan will provide additional annual contributions to those previously accruing benefits under the pfizer consolidated pension plan. this change will result in elimination of future service costs for the plan.in may 2017, the fasb issued new guidance on the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards. the new guidance clarifies that changes in the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award be accounted for as a modification unless all the following conditions are met:1.the fair value of the modified award is the same as the fair value of the original award immediately before the original award is modified.2.the vesting conditions of the modified award are the same as the vesting conditions of the original award immediately before the original award is modified.3.the modification does not change the classification of the award as an equity instrument or a liability instrument. january 1, 2018. early application is permitted, including in interim periods. we have substantially completed our review and will continue to assess events that may occur prior to adoption. the new accounting standard is applicable on a prospective basis upon adoption and therefore has no impact on completed transactions. the impact of adopting this guidance will be dependent upon whether we make any future modifications of share-based payment awards, and we have no plans to modify share-based payment awards at this time. in february 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on leases. the new asu provides guidance for both lessee and lessor accounting models. among other things, the new guidance requires that a right of use asset and a lease liability be recognized for leases with a duration of greater than one year. january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this new guidance. we anticipate recognition of at least $2 billion of additional assets and corresponding liabilities on our balance sheet. we are currently assessing the potential impact of embedded leases on our consolidated financial statements, given our manufacturing outsourcing, service arrangements and other agreements. in connection with this guidance we will need to design new global processes and technological solutions to provide the appropriate financial accounting and disclosure data. we continue to monitor changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the fasb, which may impact our conclusions.in march 2017, the fasb issued new guidance that shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium. the new guidance requires the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. january 1, 2019. early application is permitted, including in interim periods, so long as any adjustments are reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period in which the guidance is applied. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.100standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin july 2017, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, and accounting for certain financial instruments with down round features (a feature in a financial instrument that reduces the strike price of an issued financial instrument if the issuer sells shares of its stock for an amount less than the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument or issues an equity-linked financial instrument with a strike price below the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument). january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.in august 2017, the fasb issued new guidance making targeted improvements to accounting for hedging activities. the objective of this amendment is to improve financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements, and also to simplify the application of hedge accounting guidance. january 1, 2019. early adoption is permitted, including in interim periods. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements and, pending our final review, we may consider early adoption.in june 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments. the new guidance replaces the probable initial recognition threshold for incurred loss estimates in current gaap with a methodology that reflects expected credit loss estimates. january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted as of fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. previously, when credit losses were measured under gaap, an entity generally only considered past events and current conditions in measuring the incurred loss. the new guidance requires us to identify, analyze, document and support new methodologies for quantifying expected credit loss estimates for our financial instruments, using information such as historical estimates and current economic environmental conditions, plus the use of reasonable supportable forecast information.in january 2017, the fasb issued new guidance for goodwill impairment testing. the new guidance eliminates the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. under the new guidance the goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, although it cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, we do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.101forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “forecast,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, the disposition of the his net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the expected impact of the recent hurricanes in puerto rico set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our business––impact of recent hurricanes in puerto rico” section of this md&a, the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our hospira manufacturing facilities set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our business––product manufacturing” section of this md&a, the anticipated timeframe for any decision regarding strategic alternatives for pfizer consumer healthcare set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a, our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook––the global economic environment” and the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” sections of this md&a, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2017” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives set forth in the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, the benefits expected from our business development transactions, the anticipated product performance set forth in “revenues and product developments—revenues—selected product discussion” of this md&a and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to our pension and postretirement plans during 2017 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products; and uncertainties regarding our ability to address the comments in complete response letters received by us with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of the fda;•the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;•risks associated with preliminary, early stage or interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which preliminary, early stage or interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the preliminary, early stage or interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication;•the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions;•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;102•the implementation by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•risks related to our ability to develop and launch biosimilars, including risks associated with “at risk” launches, defined as the marketing of a product by pfizer before the final resolution of litigation (including any appeals) brought by a third party alleging that such marketing would infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party;•the ability to meet competition from generic, branded and biosimilar products after the loss or expiration of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;•difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including delays caused by natural events, such as hurricanes; supply shortages at our facilities; and legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions or voluntary recall of a product;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products;•the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on the pharmaceutical industry as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort;• the impact of any u.s. healthcare reform or legislation, including any repeal, substantial modification or invalidation of any or all of the provisions of the u.s. patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action and/or policy efforts affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines, manufacturer prices and/or price increases that could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses and settlement costs;•the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, as well as tax issues;•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;103•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates and the volatility following the u.k. referendum in which voters approved the exit from the eu;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesale distributors, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;•the end result of any negotiations between the u.k. government and the eu regarding the terms of the u.k.’s exit from the eu, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu;•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, in the u.s. and other countries;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate;•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; •the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items;•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives and of the internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure;•the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; •risks related to internal control over financial reporting; •risks and uncertainties related to our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions, including the possibility that expected cost savings related to the acquisition of hospira and accretion related to the acquisitions of hospira, anacor and medivation will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transactions making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; risks related to our ability to grow revenues for xtandi and expand xtandi into the non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer setting; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities; and•risks and uncertainties related to our evaluation of strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alternatives we may pursue for our consumer healthcare business, including the potential for disruption to our business resulting from the evaluation of strategic alternatives for pfizer consumer healthcare; the possibility that we may not be able to realize a higher value for pfizer consumer healthcare through strategic alternatives; and unknown liabilities.we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results 104and those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects.our 2016 form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. reference is also made to part ii, item 1a, “risk factors,” of this quarterly report on form 10-q. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented.this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings in part i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.105