item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsintroductionsee the glossary of defined terms at the beginning of this quarterly report on form 10-q for terms used throughout this md&a. our md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:●overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookbeginning on page 44 this section provides information about the following: our business; our performance during the first quarter of 2017 and 2016; our operating environment; the global economic environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2017. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomebeginning on page 56 this section includes a revenues overview section as well as the following sub-sections:  ○  revenues - major productsbeginning on page 59 this sub-section provides revenue information for several of our major biopharmaceutical products.  ○  revenues - selected product discussionbeginning on page 60 this sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products.  ○  product developments - biopharmaceuticalbeginning on page 63 this sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.  ○  costs and expensesbeginning on page 67 this sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.  ○  provision for taxes on incomebeginning on page 70 this sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.  ○  non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)beginning on page 70 this sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. ●analysis of operating segment informationbeginning on page 75 this section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. ●selected balance sheet information by operating segmentbeginning on page 80 this section provides a discussion of certain balance sheet accounts by operating segment. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomebeginning on page 80 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsbeginning on page 81 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts, including accumulated other comprehensive loss. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flowsbeginning on page 82 this section provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first three months of 2017 and 2016. ●analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourcesbeginning on page 83 this section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of april 2, 2017 and december 31, 2016, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of april 2, 2017 and december 31, 2016. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer’s future activities. ●new accounting standardsbeginning on page 87 this section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. ●forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsbeginning on page 90 this section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a, relating to, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. also included in this section is a discussion of legal proceedings and contingencies. certain amounts in our md&a may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.42the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 %changerevenues $12,779 $13,005 (2)       cost of sales 2,470 2,851 (13)% of revenues 19.3% 21.9%         selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,308 3,385 (2)% of revenues 25.9% 26.0%         research and development expenses 1,708 1,731 (1)% of revenues 13.4% 13.3%         amortization of intangible assets 1,186 1,006 18% of revenues 9.3% 7.7%         restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 157 141 11% of revenues 1.2% 1.1%         other (income)/deductions––net (1) 330 *income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,951 3,561 11% of revenues 30.9% 27.4%         provision for taxes on income 821 513 60effective tax rate 20.8% 14.4%         income from continuing operations 3,130 3,048 3% of revenues 24.5% 23.4%         discontinued operations––net of tax — — —       net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 3,130 3,048 3% of revenues 24.5% 23.4%         less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 9 (8)net income attributable to pfizer inc. $3,121 $3,038 3% of revenues 24.4% 23.4%         earnings per common share––basic:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.52 $0.49 6net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.52 $0.49 6       earnings per common share––diluted:      income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.51 $0.49 6net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.51 $0.49 6       cash dividends paid per common share $0.32 $0.30 7* calculation not meaningful.43overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (alliance revenues).we manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information and the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a below.the majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2016 form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, the ability to replenish innovative biopharmaceutical products, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. we also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. for additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “our operating environment” and “the global economic environment” sections of this md&a and of our 2016 financial report and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k.the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the u.s. is as of and for the three months ended february 26, 2017 and february 28, 2016. the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for u.s. subsidiaries is as of and for the three months ended april 2, 2017 and april 3, 2016.references to developed and emerging markets in this md&a include:developed markets u.s., western europe, japan, canada, australia, south korea, scandinavian countries, finland and new zealand   emerging markets (includes, but is not limited to) asia (excluding japan and south korea), latin america, africa, eastern europe, central europe, the middle east and turkeyreferences to operational variances in this md&a pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. the operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current period u.s. dollar results by the current period average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year period average foreign exchange rates. although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information in evaluating the results of our business.our significant business development activities include:•on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion therapy net assets, his, to icu medical for up to approximately $900 million, composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, icu medical common stock and seller financing. at closing, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of icu medical common stock, which we valued at approximately $428 million, a promissory note in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. in addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on icu medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through december 31, 2019. the operating results of his are included in the condensed consolidated statement of income and eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, financial results for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations, while financial results for the first quarter of 2016 reflect three months of legacy his global operations. assets and liabilities associated with his are presented as held for sale in the condensed consolidated balance 44sheet as of december 31, 2016. the his assets held for sale are reported in assets held for sale and his liabilities held for sale are reported in other current liabilities.•on december 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s., including the commercialization and development rights to the newly approved eu drug zavicefta™ (ceftazidime-avibactam), the marketed agents merrem™/meronem™ (meropenem) and zinforo™ (ceftaroline fosamil), and the clinical development assets atm-avi and cxl (ceftaroline fosamil-avi). the total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $555 million in cash plus contingent consideration of $490 million. of this cash consideration, approximately $3 million was not paid as of april 2, 2017, and was recorded in other current liabilities. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of this business, and, in accordance with our international reporting period, our condensed consolidated financial statements for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately two months of legacy astrazeneca small molecule anti-infectives business international operations, which were immaterial.•on september 28, 2016, we acquired medivation for $81.50 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ($13.9 billion, net of cash acquired). of this consideration, approximately $365 million was not paid as of april 2, 2017, and was recorded in other current liabilities. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of medivation. as a result, legacy medivation operations are reflected in our results of operations, ih’s operating results, and cash flows for the first quarter of 2017, but not for the first quarter of 2016.•on june 24, 2016, we acquired anacor for $99.25 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ($4.5 billion, net of cash acquired), plus $698 million debt assumed. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of anacor. as a result, legacy anacor operations are reflected in our results of operations, ih’s operating results, and cash flows for the first quarter of 2017, but not for the first quarter of 2016.for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment and the “our strategy” and “our business development initiatives” sections of this md&a below.45our first quarter 2017 performancerevenues––first quarter 2017revenues in the first quarter of 2017 decreased 2% compared to the same period in 2016, which reflects an operational decrease of 1%, and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 1%.compared to the first quarter of 2016, revenues for the first quarter of 2017 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $300 million as a result of one less selling day in the u.s. and two fewer selling days in international markets. this imbalance in selling days will result in one less u.s. selling day and one less international selling day in full-year 2017, as compared to 2016.the following provides an analysis of the 2017 revenue decline:(millions of dollars)    revenues, for the three months ended april 3, 2016 $13,005   acquisition-related growth  xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation) 131  disposition-related impact approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to three months of legacy his global operations in the same period in 2016 (207)  operational growth/(decline)  growth from key brands, including ibrance and eliquis (globally), lyrica (ih) and xeljanz (both primarily in the u.s.), as well as growth in the pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio and biosimilars 706decline from the peri-loe products portfolio and the legacy established products portfolio, as well as lower revenues for enbrel (in most developed europe markets), prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (globally) and viagra (ih) (in the u.s.)  (688)other operational factors, net (53)operational decline, net (110)   operational revenues 12,895unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (116)revenues, for the three months ended april 2, 2017 $12,779see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues and product developments––revenues––overview” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance.46income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income––first quarter 2017 the following provides an analysis of the increase in income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income for the first quarter of 2017:(millions of dollars)  income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three months ended april 3, 2016 $3,561   unfavorable change in revenues (226)   favorable changes: lower cost of sales(a)381lower certain legal matters, net(b)266higher net gains on asset disposals(b)123lower certain asset impairments(b)119lower selling, informational and administrative expenses(c)76lower research and development expenses(d)23unfavorable changes:higher amortization of intangible assets(e)(180)lower royalty-related income(b)(101)loss on sale of his net assets(b)(37)all other items(54)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income, for the three months ended april 2, 2017$3,951(a) see the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a.(b) see the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net.(c) see the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative expenses ” section of this md&a.(d) see the “costs and expenses––research and development expenses” section of this md&a.(e) see the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets” section of this md&a.for information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters.our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesintellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. we have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.as a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of pristiq launched in the u.s. in march 2017. see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan impacting product revenues and (ii) recent losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years, including, among others, viagra in the u.s. in december 2017 and the expiration of the basic product patent for lyrica in the u.s. in december 2018. for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2016 form 10-k.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “revenues––major products” and “revenues––selected product descriptions” sections of this md&a. for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.47regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. for additional information, see the “government regulation and price constraints” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2016 form 10-k. we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:•$58 million in the first quarter of 2017 and $96 million in the first quarter of 2016, recorded as a reduction to revenues related to the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and •$37 million in the first quarter of 2017 and $32 million in the first quarter of 2016, recorded in selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs.regulatory environment/pricing and access––government and other payer group pressuresgovernments, mcos and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to patients and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. in the u.s., a primary government activity with implications for pharmaceutical pricing is deficit reduction. any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. significant medicare reductions could also result if congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or if it chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. similar reductions to medicare spending could result if the threshold for action by the independent payment advisory board (ipab) is reached, and the secretary of the department of health and human services (to whom responsibility for developing savings proposals specified in the aca is likely to default in the absence of a seated ipab) is required to identify savings.consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue.additionally, efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products could adversely affect our business if implemented. there has recently been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we continue to work with stakeholders to ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system.adoption of other new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. in 2017, we may face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca, including through the american health care act of 2017, which was approved by the u.s. house of representatives in may 2017. the u.s. senate has indicated that it will use the american health care act as a starting point for its own aca repeal and replacement bill, the final form of which is uncertain, as is its likelihood of passage. although the revenues generated for pfizer by the medicaid expansion and health insurance exchanges under the aca have been exceeded by the new rebates, discounts, and taxes, there is no assurance that repeal or replacement of the aca will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if replacement legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. we will continue to work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes and lower costs to the healthcare system.the potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca to be imposed in 2020, are already scaling back healthcare benefits and an increasing number are implementing high deductible benefit designs. this is a trend that is likely to continue, especially if proposals to limit the tax exclusion for employer sponsored health insurance ultimately become law. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, 48lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes.overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. outside the u.s., governments, including the different eu member states, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries and some third-party trade in our products between countries.in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations (un) and the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), are increasing policy pressures and scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 un high level panel report on access to medicines and 2017 oecd report on new health technologies––managing access, value and sustainability). government adoption of these recommendations may lead to additional pricing pressures.in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. for additional information, see the “regulatory environment––pipeline productivity” and “competition” sections of our 2016 financial report.the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. •governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. examples include europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets. the u.s. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage.•we continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets, including greece, where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. for further information about our accounts receivable, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.•significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on 49earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates, including those changes resulting from the volatility following the u.k. referendum in which voters approved the exit from the eu, can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela and more recently egypt, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” and the “our financial guidance for 2017” sections of this md&a. •in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as “brexit”. in january 2017, the u.k. prime minister announced a 12-point plan of negotiating objectives and confirmed that the u.k. government will not seek continued membership of the eu single market. in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. this process is expected to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu.we generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the u.k. in the first quarter of 2017. however, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu. in addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable.pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both s&p and moody’s. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k.our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. commercial operationswe manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). the ih and eh operating segments are each led by a single manager. each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain ipr&d projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets.50 some additional information about our business segments follows: ih segment  eh segment●ih focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare.key therapeutic areas include internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare diseases and consumer healthcare. ●eh includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars, select branded products including anti-infectives and, through february 2, 2017, his. eh also includes an r&d organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business.●we expect that the ih biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to help ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by ih are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. ●eh is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. eh leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. additionally, eh leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. eh may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.●ih will have continued focus on r&d productivity and pipeline strength while maximizing the value of our recently launched brands and in-line portfolio. our acquisitions of anacor and medivation expanded our pipeline in the high priority therapeutic areas of inflammation and immunology and oncology. ●for eh, we continue to invest in growth drivers and manage the portfolio to extract additional value while seeking opportunities for operating efficiencies. this strategy includes active management of our portfolio; maximizing growth of core product segments; acquisitions to strengthen core areas of our portfolio further, such as our recent acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business; and divestitures to increase focus on our core strengths. in line with this strategy, on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of pfizer’s global infusion therapy net assets, representing the infusion systems net assets that we acquired as part of the hospira transaction, his, to icu medical. leading brands include:- prevnar 13- xeljanz- eliquis- lyrica (u.s., japan and certain other markets)- enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada)- viagra (u.s. and canada)- ibrance- xtandi- several otc consumer healthcare products (e.g., advil and  centrum)  leading brands include:- lipitor- premarin family- norvasc- lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia countries)- celebrex- pristiq- several sterile injectable productsfor additional information about the first quarter of 2017 performance and selected balance sheet information as of december 31, 2016, for each of our operating segments, see the “analysis of operating segment information” and the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” sections of this md&a.description of research and development operationsinnovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on:•biosimilars; •inflammation and immunology;•metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks;•neuroscience; •oncology;•rare diseases; and•vaccines.51we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations: •research units within our wrd organization are generally responsible for research assets for our ih business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our research units are organized in a variety of ways (by therapeutic area or combinations of therapeutic areas, by discipline, by location, etc.) to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources within a research unit between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. •our r&d organization within the eh business supports the large base of eh products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. •our gpd organization is a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products and is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. gpd combines certain previously separate development-related functions from the ih business and the wrd organization to achieve a development capability that is expected to deliver high-quality, efficient, and well-executed clinical programs by enabling greater speed, greater cost efficiencies, and reduced complexity across our development portfolio. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects. •our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&d spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicinal chemistry, regulatory and drug safety, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. as a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs.we manage r&d operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. specifically, a single committee with representation from the r&d groups and the ih commercial organization is accountable for aligning resources among all of our wrd, gpd and ih r&d projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the innovative r&d portfolio. we believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. our eh r&d organization manages its resources separately from the wrd and gpd organizations.generally, we do not disaggregate total r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our r&d operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending.while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations, alliances and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments––biopharmaceutical” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we 52believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. for additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation. for information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see “risks related to intellectual property” in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a. for additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen one or both of our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of hospira, medivation, anacor, and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies, including our collaborations with cellectis, opko and merck kgaa. we assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses. for additional information on our business development activities, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment.the more significant recent transactions and events are described below:•sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh)––on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion therapy net assets, his, to icu medical. in connection with this transaction, we recognized a loss of approximately $37 million in other (income)/deductions––net in the first quarter of 2017, representing an incremental charge to amounts previously recorded to write down the his net assets to fair value less costs to sell. we may record additional adjustments to the loss on the sale of his net assets in future periods, pending final working capital adjustments, local market closes, among other agreement provisions, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.•acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business (eh)––on december 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the u.s., including the commercialization and development rights to the newly approved eu drug zavicefta™ (ceftazidime-avibactam), the marketed agents merrem™/meronem™ (meropenem) and zinforo™ (ceftaroline fosamil), and the clinical development assets atm-avi and cxl (ceftaroline fosamil-avi). the total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $555 million in cash plus contingent consideration of $490 million.•acquisition of medivation, inc. (ih)––on september 28, 2016, we acquired medivation for $81.50 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ($13.9 billion, net of cash acquired). medivation’s portfolio includes xtandi (enzalutamide), an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells. xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. astellas has exclusive commercialization rights for xtandi outside the u.s. in addition, medivation has two development-stage oncology assets in its pipeline: talazoparib, which is currently in a phase 3 study for the treatment of brca-mutated breast cancer, and pidilizumab, an immuno-oncology asset.53•acquisition of bamboo therapeutics, inc. (r&d)––on august 1, 2016, we acquired all the remaining equity in bamboo, a privately-held biotechnology company, focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare diseases relating to neuromuscular conditions and those affecting the central nervous system, for $150 million, plus potential milestone payments of up to $495 million contingent upon the progression of key assets through development, regulatory approval and commercialization. we previously purchased a minority stake in bamboo in the first quarter of 2016 for a payment of approximately $43 million. this acquisition provides us with several clinical and pre-clinical assets that complement our rare disease portfolio, an advanced recombinant aav vector design and production technology, and a fully functional phase i/ii gene therapy manufacturing facility. •acquisition of anacor pharmaceuticals, inc. (ih)––on june 24, 2016, we acquired anacor for $99.25 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ($4.5 billion net of cash acquired) plus $698 million debt assumed. anacor’s crisaborole, a non-steroidal topical pde-4 inhibitor with anti-inflammatory properties, was approved by the fda on december 14, 2016 under the trade name, eucrisa, for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis in patients two years of age and older, commonly referred to as a type of eczema. anacor also holds the rights to kerydin, a topical treatment for onychomycosis (toenail fungus) that is distributed and commercialized by sandoz in the u.s.•research and development arrangement with novaquest co-investment fund v, l.p.––in april 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with novaquest under which novaquest will fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s rivipansel compound and pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. novaquest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately twelve quarters from 2016 to 2019. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to novaquest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2017 totaled $17.2 million. following potential regulatory approval, novaquest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total, based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•research and development arrangement with rpi finance trust––in january 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with rpi, a subsidiary of royalty pharma, under which rpi will fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the indication). rpi’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials through 2021. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to rpi, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2017 and 2016 totaled $14.5 million and $8.8 million, respectively. if successful and upon approval of ibrance in the u.s. or certain major markets in the eu for the indication based on the applicable clinical trials, rpi will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain ibrance sales over approximately seven years. fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 23, 2017, the filing date of our 2016 form 10-k, see the “our business development initiatives” section of our 2016 financial report.54our financial guidance for 2017on may 2, 2017, we reaffirmed our 2017 financial guidance issued on january 31, 2017.pfizer’s complete 2017 financial guidance is summarized below(a), (b):revenues$52.0 to $54.0 billionadjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues20.0% to 21.0%adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$13.7 to $14.7 billionadjusted research and development expenses$7.5 to $8.0 billionadjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately $100 million of deductionseffective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 23.0%adjusted diluted eps$2.50 to $2.60(a) the  financial guidance reflects the following:•does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of april 2, 2017, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions.•exchange rates assumed are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through first-quarter 2017 and mid-april 2017 exchange rates for the remainder of the year.•reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.4 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. •reflects the anticipated negative impact of $0.5 billion on revenues and $0.03 on adjusted diluted eps as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2016.•guidance for adjusted diluted eps assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of between 6.0 to 6.1 billion shares, which reflects our $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in february 2017.(b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.pfizer does not provide guidance for gaap reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-gaap financial measures to the most directly comparable gaap reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. these items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on gaap reported results for the guidance period. for information about our actual costs and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our three-year cost-reduction initiative entered into in the fourth quarter of 2016, the hospira acquisition, our recent business development activities, and global commercial structure, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our 2017 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “our operating environment”, “the global economic environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2016 form 10-k.significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptionsfor a description of our significant accounting policies, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies in our 2016 form 10-k. of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) acquisitions (note 1d); (ii) fair value (note 1e); (iii) revenues (note 1g); (iv) asset impairments (note 1k); (v) income tax contingencies (note 1o); (vi) pension and postretirement benefit plans (note 1p); and legal and environmental contingencies (note 1q). for a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements, see the “significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions” section of our 2016 financial report. see also notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions in our 2016 form 10-k.for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.55analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomerevenues and product developmentsrevenues––overviewthe following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geographic area:  three months ended  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) apr 2, 2017 apr 3, 2016 apr 2, 2017 apr 3, 2016 apr 2, 2017 apr 3, 2016 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $7,415 $7,033 $4,493 $4,114 $2,922 $2,919 5 9 —eh 5,364 5,972 2,144 2,547 3,220 3,425 (10) (16) (6)total revenues $12,779 $13,005 $6,637 $6,661 $6,142 $6,344 (2) — (3)(a) ih = the innovative health segment; and eh = the essential health segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” and “analysis of operating segment information” sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.the percentages of worldwide revenues by geographic area are as follows:revenues––first quarter 2017the decrease in revenues in the first quarter of 2017 reflects an operational decrease of $110 million, or 1%, and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $116 million, or 1%. in the u.s., revenues were flat in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. international revenues decreased 1% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 2% on international revenues. emerging markets revenues increased $157 million, or 6% operationally, in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 3% on emerging markets revenues. this operational growth in emerging markets was primarily driven by our ih segment as well as our sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio. compared to the first quarter of 2016, revenues for the first quarter of 2017 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $300 million as a result of one less selling day in the u.s. and two fewer selling days in international markets. this imbalance in selling days will result in one less u.s. selling day and one less international selling day in full-year 2017, as compared to 2016.56the following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in the first quarter of 2017:(millions of dollars) three months ended april 2, 2017  worldwide u.s. international       acquisition-related growth:      xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation) $131 $131 $—      disposition-related impact:     approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to three months of legacy his global operations in the same period in 2016 (207) (175) (32)      operational growth/(decline):      continued growth from key brands, including ibrance and eliquis globally, as well as lyrica (ih) and xeljanz, both primarily in the u.s. 620 446 174growth/(decline) in the pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio 45 (13) 58growth in biosimilars, primarily driven by inflectra in certain developed europe markets and in the u.s. 41 17 24decline from peri-loe products, including pristiq in the u.s., which lost marketing exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017, lyrica in most developed europe markets and zyvox in developed europe markets and in the u.s. (253) (79) (174)growth/(decline) in the legacy established products portfolio (153) (162) 8lower revenues for enbrel in most developed europe markets, primarily due to continued biosimilar competition (117) — (117)decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues, primarily driven by the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication in the u.s. due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the same period in 2016, partially offset by the favorable impact from the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication. international revenues decreased primarily due to the unfavorable timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication, partially offset by modest growth of the adult indication in certain developed europe markets (113) (93) (20)decline in viagra (ih) revenues in the u.s. primarily due to lower market demand (51) (51) —other operational factors, net (53) (44) (9)operational decline, net (110) (24) (87)      unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (116) — (116)revenues decrease $(226) $(24) $(203)for additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about certain specific products, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income—revenues and product developments—revenues—selected product discussion” section of this md&a. revenue deductionsour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent chargebacks, rebates and sales allowances to wholesalers, and, to a lesser extent, distributors like mcos, retailers and government agencies with respect to our pharmaceutical products. those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends.57the following table provides information about revenue deductions:  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016medicare rebates(a) $260 $276medicaid and related state program rebates(a) 445 371performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 729 589chargebacks(c) 1,498 1,439sales allowances(d) 1,111 976sales returns and cash discounts 324 364total(e) $4,367 $4,015(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with mcos within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pbms, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. outside the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to u.s. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the u.s., discounts and distribution fees.(e) for the three months ended april 2, 2017, associated with the following segments: ih ($1.9 billion) and eh ($2.5 billion). for the three months ended april 3, 2016, associated with the following segments: ih ($1.6 billion); and eh ($2.4 billion).total revenue deductions for the first quarter of 2017 increased 9% compared to the first quarter of 2016, primarily as a result of:•an increase in performance-based contract rebates primarily due to sales to managed care customers in the u.s. and higher rebates in certain markets outside the u.s. due to competitive pressures post-loss of exclusivity for certain products and volume-based rebates;•an increase in sales allowances;•an increase in medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of updated estimates of sales related to these programs; and•an increase in chargebacks from eh products, primarily legacy pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals.our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $4.2 billion as of april 2, 2017, of which approximately $2.8 billion is included in other current liabilities, $369 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.0 billion is included against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $4.3 billion as of december 31, 2016, of which approximately $2.8 billion is included in other current liabilities, $357 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.2 billion is included against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. 58revenues—major productsthe following table provides revenue information for several of our major products:  three months ended(millions of dollars)   % change(a)product primary indications or class april 2, 2017total oper.total revenues   $12,779 (2) (1)pfizer innovative health (ih)(b) $7,415 5 6internal medicine $2,377 12 12lyrica ih(c) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury 1,131 12 12eliquis alliance revenues and direct sales atrial fibrillation, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism 564 51 52viagra ih(d) erectile dysfunction 249 (17) (17)chantix/champix an aid to smoking cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age or older 239 9 9toviaz overactive bladder 63 — —bmp2 development of bone and cartilage 62 21 21all other internal medicine various 69 (35) (35)vaccines $1,465 (7) (6)prevnar 13/prevenar 13 vaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease 1,392 (8) (7)all other vaccines various 73 18 21oncology $1,347 35 36ibrance advanced breast cancer 679 58 59sutent advanced and/or metastatic rcc, refractory gist (after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate) and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor 250 (10) (9)xalkori alk-positive nsclc and ros1-positive nsclc 142 2 4xtandi alliance revenues advanced prostate cancer 131 * *inlyta advanced rcc 85 (16) (15)all other oncology various 61 10 10inflammation & immunology (i&i) $871 (8) (7)enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada) rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, pediatric plaque psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis 588 (20) (18)xeljanz rheumatoid arthritis 250 27 27eucrisa mild to moderate atopic dermatitis (eczema) 9 * *all other i&i various 24 38 36rare disease $507 (11) (9)benefix hemophilia 149 (19) (18)refacto af/xyntha hemophilia 130 1 5genotropin replacement of human growth hormone 104 (17) (16)somavert acromegaly 56 3 5all other rare disease various 67 (11) (10)consumer healthcare $848 3 3pfizer essential health (eh)(e) $5,364 (10) (9)legacy established products (lep)(f) $2,606 (7) (5)lipitor reduction of ldl cholesterol 404 (2) 2norvasc hypertension 228 (3) —premarin family symptoms of menopause 228 (11) (11)relpax symptoms of migraine headache 82 6 6epipen epinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions 81 (16) (17)zithromax bacterial infections 79 (1) 4xalatan/xalacom glaucoma and ocular hypertension 77 (13) (15)zoloft depression and certain anxiety disorders 68 (14) (13)effexor depression and certain anxiety disorders 66 (5) (4)xanax anxiety disorders 55 5 6all other lep various 1,238 (8) (7)sterile injectable pharmaceuticals (sip)(g) $1,552 2 3sulperazon antibiotic 122 27 34medrol adrenocortical steroid 120 6 7tygacil antibiotic 74 (2) (1)fragmin anticoagulant 71 (8) (6)precedex sedative 64 (7) (9)all other sip various 1,100 1 2peri-loe products(h) $822 (25) (23)celebrex arthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain 175 2 2lyrica eh(c) epilepsy, neuropathic pain and generalized anxiety disorder 141 (35) (32)pristiq depression 116 (35) (36)vfend fungal infections 107 (32) (30)viagra eh(d) erectile dysfunction 89 (7) (3)zyvox bacterial infections 77 (39) (39)revatio pulmonary arterial hypertension 65 (3) (2)all other peri-loe products various 53 (30) (28)59  three months ended(millions of dollars)   % change(a)product primary indications or class april 2, 2017total oper.biosimilars(i) various $105 57 62inflectra/remsima inflammatory diseases 78 * *all other biosimilars various 27 (12) (8)pfizer centreone(j)   $182 (3) (3)hospira infusion systems (his)(k) various $97 (68) (68)total lyrica(c) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury $1,271 3 4total viagra(d) erectile dysfunction $339 (14) (14)total alliance revenues various $656 82 83(a) as compared to the three months ended april 3, 2016.(b) the ih business encompasses internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare disease and consumer healthcare and includes all legacy medivation and anacor commercial operations. medivation’s and anacor’s commercial operations are included in ih’s operating results in our consolidated statements of income, commencing from their respective acquisition dates of september 28, 2016 and june 24, 2016. therefore, our first-quarter 2016 results of operations, and ih’s operating results, do not include financial results from medivation or anacor. through december 31, 2016, includes duavive/duavee and viviant (recorded in all other internal medicine in 2016), which were transferred from innovative health to essential health effective january 1, 2017 (recorded in all other lep (eh) beginning january 1, 2017), in order to align these products with our management of the women’s health portfolio within eh. (c) lyrica revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia countries are included in lyrica eh. all other lyrica revenues are included in lyrica ih. total lyrica revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from lyrica ih and lyrica eh. (d) viagra revenues from the u.s. and canada are included in viagra ih. all other viagra revenues are included in viagra eh. total viagra revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh.(e) the eh business encompasses legacy established products, sterile injectable pharmaceuticals, peri-loe products, his (through february 2, 2017), biosimilars and pfizer centreone and includes all legacy hospira commercial operations. on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion therapy net assets, his, to icu medical. the operating results of his are included in eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017, and, therefore, financial results for eh for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations, while financial results for eh for the first quarter of 2016 reflect three months of legacy his global operations.(f) legacy established products primarily include products that have lost patent protection (excluding sterile injectable pharmaceuticals and peri-loe products). effective january 1, 2017, all other lep includes duavive/duavee and viviant, which were transferred from innovative health (recorded in all other internal medicine (ih) in 2016), in order to align these products with our management of the women’s health portfolio within eh. see note (b) above.(g) sterile injectable pharmaceuticals include generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding peri-loe products).(h) peri-loe products include products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. these products include: lyrica in europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia; viagra in all countries (excluding the u.s. and canada); and worldwide revenues for celebrex, pristiq, zyvox, vfend, revatio and inspra.(i) biosimilars include inflectra/remsima (biosimilar infliximab) in the u.s. and certain international markets, nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) in certain european, asian and africa/middle east markets and retacrit (biosimilar epoetin zeta) in certain european and africa/middle east markets.(j) pfizer centreone includes revenues from our contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including sterile injectables contract manufacturing, and revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements, including with zoetis.(k) his (through february 2, 2017) includes medication management systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as iv infusion products, including large volume iv solutions and their associated administration sets.*calculation not meaningful or greater than 100%.revenues––selected product discussionthe information included in “revenues—selected product discussion” below should be read in conjunction with the revenue information included in the “revenues—major products” section.all products have been impacted to some extent by the number of selling days in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016. revenues for the first quarter of 2017 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $300 million as a result of one less selling day in the u.s. and two fewer selling days in international markets. this imbalance in selling days will result in one less u.s. selling day and one less international selling day in the full year 2017 as compared to 2016.•prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (ih) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter, compared to the same period in 2016.in the u.s., revenues for prevnar 13 decreased 9% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily driven by the decline in revenues for the adult indication in the u.s. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults age 65 and older who have not been previously vaccinated with prevnar 13) compared to the prior-year quarter. given the success since the launch of the adult indication, approximately 50% of the eligible patient pool 65 years and above in the u.s. has already been vaccinated. while the remaining eligible population is large, this cohort is much more difficult to capture. the decrease was partially offset by the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication.internationally, revenues for prevenar 13 decreased 4% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to unfavorable timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication, partially offset by modest growth of the adult indication in certain developed europe markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. in 2014, the acip voted to recommend prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. these acip recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the cdc and u.s. department of health and 60human services, and were published in the morbidity and mortality weekly report in september 2014 by the cdc. as with other vaccines, the cdc regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the cdc announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018. currently, we are working with a number of u.s. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends.•lyrica (eh (revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia)/ih (revenues from all other geographies)) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the same period in 2016.in the u.s., revenues increased 14% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, driven by increased demand and positive price impact.internationally, lyrica revenues decreased 14% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets and a new national health insurance (nhi) price in japan starting in april 2016, partially offset by operational growth in certain markets, primarily in australia, asia and the middle east. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.lyrica worldwide revenues in our ih segment increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily driven by increased demand and positive price impact in the u.s. and increased demand in australia and korea. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on lyrica ih revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. in our eh segment, worldwide revenues from lyrica decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on lyrica eh worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•ibrance (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, most of which were recorded in the u.s. the significant revenues relate to our scientific/clinical data, continued positive patient experience as well as ibrance being the first (in the u.s.) and only (outside of the u.s.) registered product in this class of medicines. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•enbrel (ih, outside the u.s. and canada) worldwide revenues, excluding the u.s. and canada, decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to continued biosimilar competition, which is expected to continue. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•lipitor (eh) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. in the u.s., revenues decreased 27% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to lower volumes. in our international markets, revenues increased 5% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, driven by strong demand in china, partially offset by lower volumes in japan and certain middle east markets, as well as pricing pressures in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•viagra (ih (u.s. and canada revenues)/eh (all other revenues excluding u.s. and canada)) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to lower market demand. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. revenues in the u.s. decreased 17% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to lower market demand. international revenues decreased 3% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily from lower volumes in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. in our eh segment, worldwide revenues from viagra decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily from lower volumes in china, partially offset by increased demand in certain emerging markets in europe and the middle east. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on viagra eh revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•xeljanz (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. in the u.s., xeljanz revenues increased 21% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists, growing awareness among patients, improvements in payer access and price increases. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•sutent (ih) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to competitive pressure in the u.s. and europe and cost containment measures in certain developed international markets, partially offset by price increases in the u.s. and strong demand in japan and certain emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.61•chantix/champix (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. in the u.s., chantix revenues increased 12% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to price increases, increased demand due to more effective branded direct-to-consumer campaigns, including the promotion of the reduce-to-quit approach, and continued expansion of unrestricted managed care coverage.•norvasc (eh) worldwide revenues were flat operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. results for the first quarter of 2017 were impacted by lower volumes in certain middle east markets, generic competition in japan and pricing pressures in china, offset by strong demand in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•the premarin family of products (eh) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. revenues in the u.s. decreased 12% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily driven by prescription volume declines and lower market growth, partially offset by price increases. internationally, premarin revenues decreased 3% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to 2016, primarily due to lower volume in mexico, partially offset by price increases. foreign exchange had a favorable impact on international revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•celebrex (eh) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily driven by favorable rebates in the u.s. and volume growth in emerging markets, primarily china and certain middle east markets. this was partially offset by the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition in the u.s. and most developed international markets. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•benefix and refacto af/xyntha (ih)––benefix worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily as a result of erosion of market share in the u.s. and european countries due to increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. refacto af/xyntha worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, largely due to increased product demand in certain emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. in the u.s., refacto af/xyntha revenues decreased 18% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options.•xalkori (ih) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, driven by international markets, as a result of a steady increase in diagnostic rates for the alk gene mutation across key markets outside the u.s., which has led to more patients being treated. this increase was partially offset by declines in the u.s. and japan due to competitive pressure partially mitigated by the march 2016 fda approval of the supplemental nda to treat patients with metastatic nsclc whose tumors are ros1-positive. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•pristiq (eh) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to loss of exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017. foreign exchange had a favorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•inlyta (ih) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to increased competition in the u.s. and europe, partially offset by performance in key emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•inflectra/remsima (eh) worldwide revenues increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, due to continued uptake in developed markets in europe, and the u.s. launch in the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by pricing pressures in europe.•zyvox (eh) worldwide revenues decreased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, due to generic competition in developed international markets and the u.s. and corresponding pricing pressures, partially offset by strong volume growth in china. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•eucrisa (ih) is approved in the u.s. for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis for patients two years of age and older. the fda approved eucrisa on december 14, 2016, and eucrisa was launched in the u.s. late in the first quarter of 2017. eucrisa is a novel non-steroidal topical ointment and is the first new prescription treatment for atopic dermatitis approved in over 10 years.•alliance revenues (ih/eh) increased operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, mainly due to:◦an increase in eliquis alliance revenues due to higher demand resulting from increased market penetration of novel oral anticoagulants and market share gains; and62◦the inclusion of xtandi alliance revenues of $131 million in the u.s. resulting from the september 2016 acquisition of medivation.foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on alliance revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•eliquis (ih) has been jointly developed and is commercialized by pfizer and bms. pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis except for in certain countries where pfizer commercializes eliquis and pays bms compensation based on a percentage of net sales. we have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets, beginning in the third quarter of 2015. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant (noac) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients.•xtandi (ih) is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi. subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. pfizer and astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions—net). while there has been some displacement in xtandi revenues relative to demand growth in the u.s., reflecting an increase in utilization of patient assistance programs which provide free medicines to patients, we expect patient assistance program utilization as a percentage of total demand to stabilize and moderate gradually throughout 2017.see the “analysis of the consolidated statements of income—revenues—selected product descriptions” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of the selected products discussed above.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.product developments—biopharmaceuticalwe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include:•delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise; •innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership; and •creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. our r&d primarily focuses on:•biosimilars; •inflammation and immunology;•metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks;•neuroscience; •oncology•rare diseases; and•vaccines.for additional information about our r&d organization, including the eh r&d organization, see the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook—our strategy—description of research and development operations” section of this md&a. a comprehensive update of pfizer’s development pipeline was published on may 2, 2017 and is available at www.pfizer.com/science/drug-product-pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for some candidates in phase 1 and all candidates from phase 2 through registration.the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.63recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedbavencio (avelumab)treatment for patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma with disease progression on or after platinum-based therapy, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germany may 2017bavencio (avelumab)treatment of adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older with metastatic merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanymarch 2017eucrisa (crisaborole)a non-steroidal topical anti-inflammatory pde-4 inhibitor for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitisdecember 2016troxyca (oxycodone hci/naltrexone/hci)extended-release capsules for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequateaugust 2016pending u.s. ndas and supplemental filingsproductproposed indicationdate filed*xeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritismay 2017pf-06438179(a)a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)april 2017ertugliflozintreatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merckmarch 2017inotuzumab ozogamicintreatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemiafebruary 2017lyrica (pregabalin)controlled release (once-a-day) dosingfebruary 2017mylotarg (gemtuzumabozogamicin)treatment of acute myeloid leukemiajanuary 2017retacrit(b)a potential biosimilar to epogen® and procrit® (epotein alfa)february 2015tafamidis meglumine(c)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathyfebruary 2012*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) remicade® is a registered trademark of janssen. in february 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of pf-06438179, a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the eea to sandoz, which was a condition to the european commission’s approval of the hospira transaction. we retain commercialization rights to pf-06438179 in all countries outside of the eea.(b) epogen® is a registered u.s. trademark of amgen inc.; procrit® is a registered u.s. trademark of johnson & johnson. in october 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our biologics license application for retacrit, our proposed biosimilar to epoetin alfa, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. in december 2016, we completed the resubmission of the biologics license application to the fda for retacrit in response to the “complete response” letter. we are continuing to work closely with the fda on next steps. (c) in may 2012, the fda’s peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. pfizer initiated study b3461028 in december 2013, a global phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomypathy, which includes transthyretin familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (ttr-fac) and wild-type cardiomyopathy (wt-cm). we anticipate results from this study in 2018, and continue to work with the fda to identify next steps.64regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*sutent (sunitinib)application filed in the eu for the adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma —april 2017xeljanz (tofacitinib)approval in the eu for xeljanz in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. xeljanz can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when treatment with methotrexate is inappropriatemarch 2017—ertugliflozinapplication filed in the eu for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merck—february 2017mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)application filed in the eu for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia—december 2016ibrance (palbociclib)approval in the eu for palbociclib in combination withendocrine therapy for the treatment of hr+, her2- advanced ormetastatic breast cancer, as well as for the treatment of recurrentadvanced breast cancernovember 2016—ibrance (palbociclib)application filed in japan for palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of inoperable or recurrent breast cancer —october 2016bavencio (avelumab)application filed in the eu for the treatment of metastatic merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germany—october 2016xalkori (crizotinib)approval in the eu for the treatment of ros1-positive non-small cell lung canceraugust 2016—xalkori (crizotinib)application filed in japan for the treatment of ros1-positivenon-small cell lung cancer—august 2016inotuzumab ozogamicin(a)application filed in the eu for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia—may 2016trumenba(b)application filed in the eu for a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b in individuals 10 through 25 years of age—may 2016*for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the ema validated our submissions.(a) in april 2017, the ema’s committee for medicinal products for human use issued an opinion recommending that inotuzumab ozogamicin be granted approval as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory cd22-positive b-cell precursor philadelphia chromosome negative (ph-) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and philadelphia chromosome positive (ph+) all, who have previously failed treatment with at least one tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki).(b) in march 2017, the ema’s committee for medicinal products for human use issued an opinion recommending that trumenba be granted approval for active immunization of individuals 10 years and older to prevent invasive meningococcal disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b.65late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductproposed indicationbavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1, in combination with inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor,for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration withmerck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lungcancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer that hasprogressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa,germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer,which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of ovarian cancer, which is beingdeveloped in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patientswith urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the third-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybavencio (avelumab)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of thehead and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybosulif (bosutinib)first-line treatment for patients with chronic phase philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with avillion groupinlyta (axitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupibrance (palbociclib)treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the german breast groupibrance (palbociclib)treatment of hr+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llc, and the austrian breast colorectal cancer study groupsutent (sunitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma (ex-eu)xtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of non-metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancerxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of non-metastatic high risk hormone-sensitive prostate cancerxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancerxtandi (enzalutamide)treatment of triple negative breast cancerxeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of ulcerative colitisxeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of psoriatic arthritis (ex-u.s.)vyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathynew drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateproposed indicationdacomitiniba pan-human epidermal growth factor receptor (her) tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with estimated glomerular filtration rate (egfr) activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals grouplorlatinib (pf-06463922)a next generation alk/ros1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with alk-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more alk inhibitorspf-06425090a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent clostridium difficile colitispf-05280014(a)a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)pf-05280586(b)a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)pf-06439535(c)a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)pf-06410293(d)a potential biosimilar to humira® (adalimumab)rivipansel (gmi-1070)a pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from glycomimetics inc.somatrogon (pf-06836922a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developedin collaboration with opkotalazoparib (mdv3800)an oral parp inhibitor for the treatment of patients with germline breast cancer susceptibility gene brca mutated advanced breast cancertanezumaban anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with lilly(a) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(b) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen ma inc.(c) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(d) humira® is a registered trademark of abbvie biotechnology ltd.additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our strategy––our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.66costs and expensescost of sales  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 % changecost of sales $2,470 $2,851 (13)as a percentage of revenues 19.3% 21.9%  cost of sales decreased 13% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to:•the $193 million nonrecurring 2016 unfavorable impact of acquired hospira inventory, which is measured at fair value on the acquisition date and was amortized over the turn of the related inventory in 2016;•a decrease in costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016; and•the favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by:•an unfavorable change in product mix, including products that have lost exclusivity.the decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, was primarily due to:•the non-recurrence of the unfavorable impact of acquired hospira inventory, which is measured at fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over the turn of the related inventory in 2016;•a decrease in costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016; and•an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales,partially offset by:•an unfavorable change in product mix, including products that have lost exclusivity.selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,308 $3,385 (2)as a percentage of revenues 25.9% 26.0%  si&a expenses decreased 2% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to:•the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable of approximately $280 million, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter of 2016; and•the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016,partially offset by:•additional investments across several of our key products; and•an increase in charitable contributions.67research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 % changeresearch and development expenses $1,708 $1,731 (1)as a percentage of revenues 13.4% 13.3%  r&d expenses decreased 1% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to:•the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016; and•the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016,partially offset by:•increased costs associated with our oncology programs, including medivation operations.for additional information on cost of sales, si&a and r&d expenses by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.amortization of intangible assets  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 % changeamortization of intangible assets $1,186 $1,006 18as a percentage of revenues 9.3% 7.7%  amortization of intangible assets increased 18% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to the inclusion of amortization expense of approximately $258 million (pre-tax) related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired from medivation and anacor, partially offset by assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives. see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 %changerestructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs $157 $141 11total additional depreciation—asset restructuring 14 49 (71)total implementation costs 31 62 (50)costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(a) $202 $252 (20)(a) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses and/or selling, informational and administrative expenses, as appropriate.included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs are (i) restructuring charges of $45 million in the first quarter of 2017 for employee termination costs, exit costs and asset impairments, which are largely associated with cost-reduction and productivity initiatives not associated with acquisitions, as well as our acquisitions of medivation and anacor; (ii) transaction costs, such as banking, legal, accounting and other similar services, of $12 million in the first quarter of 2017, virtually all of which are directly related to our acquisition of medivation; and (iii) integration costs, representing external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes of $101 million in the first quarter of 2017, primarily related to our acquisition of hospira. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.68included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs in the first quarter of 2016 are (i) restructuring charges of $30 million for employee termination costs and asset impairments, which are largely associated with cost-reduction and productivity initiatives not associated with acquisitions; (ii) transaction costs, such as banking, legal, accounting and other similar services, of $24 million, most of which are directly related to our terminated transaction with allergan plc; and (iii) integration costs, representing external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes, of $87 million, primarily related to our acquisition of hospira.in connection with our acquisition of hospira, we are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. we expect to achieve $1 billion of annual cost savings by 2018 in connection with the hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million, and have achieved approximately $660 million of cost savings through april 2, 2017. the one-time costs to generate the savings are expected to be approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million for full-year 2015 associated with the return of acquired ipr&d rights), incurred for up to a three-year period post-acquisition.in 2016, we substantially completed previously disclosed cost-reduction initiatives begun in 2014 associated with our global commercial structure reorganization, manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiatives, and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives across the enterprise. through december 31, 2016, we incurred $3.1 billion (pre-tax) in total costs for the 2014-2016 program. the cumulative ongoing annual cost savings associated with the 2014-2016 program (but not including expected cost savings associated with the hospira acquisition), are approximately $3.1 billion. these savings were recognized, for the most part, through the end of 2016. however, savings from costs incurred in the last half of 2016 are expected to largely occur in 2017 and are reflected in our 2017 financial guidance.new cost-reduction/productivity initiatives—2017 through 2019 activitiesas a result of the evaluation performed in connection with our decision in september 2016 to not pursue, at that time, splitting ih and eh into two separate publicly-traded companies, we have identified new opportunities to potentially achieve greater optimization and efficiency to become more competitive in our business. therefore, we have initiated new enterprise-wide cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, which we expect to complete by the end of 2019. these initiatives will encompass all areas of our cost base and will include further centralization of our corporate and platform functions and optimization of our manufacturing plant network to support ih and eh products and pipelines, as well as activities in other areas where opportunities are identified. the action plans related to these new initiatives are underway and, in order to achieve targeted savings of approximately $1.2 billion by 2020, we expect to incur total costs of approximately $900 million over the next three years. of this amount, we expect about 80% to be manufacturing operations related and we expect about a quarter of the total charges will be non-cash. for additional information about these programs and expected and actual total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. the expected cost savings in 2017 associated with these activities are reflected in our 2017 financial guidance.in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.other (income)/deductions—net  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 % changeother (income)/deductions––net $(1) $330 **calculation not meaningful.for information about the components of other (income)/deductions—net, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.69provision for taxes on income  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 % changeprovision for taxes on income $821 $513 60effective tax rate on continuing operations 20.8% 14.4%  for information about our effective tax rate and the events and circumstances contributing to the changes between periods, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. because adjusted income is an important internal measurement for pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income, certain components of adjusted income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (otc) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. also, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information. similarly, we have defined the adjusted income components as cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of intangible assets and other (income)/deductions––net, each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. we have defined adjusted diluted earnings per share as earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure and the adjusted income component measures and the adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for u.s. gaap net income, u.s. gaap net income components or u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share. the following are examples of how the adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)––general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of our 2016 financial report for additional information.adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-gaap financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. because of their non-standardized definitions, adjusted income and its components (unlike u.s. gaap net income and its components) and adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. a limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a group of pharmaceutical industry peers (pre-2015) or a publicly-traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans.70see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the first quarter of 2017 and 2016 below.purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with wyeth (acquired in 2009), hospira (acquired in 2015), anacor (acquired in june 2016) and medivation (acquired in september 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. for example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.71reconciliations of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  three months ended april 2, 2017in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $12,779 $— $— $— $— $12,779cost of sales 2,470 (7) (3) — (26) 2,434selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,308 (6) — — (14) 3,288research and development expenses 1,708 4 — — (7) 1,705amortization of intangible assets 1,186 (1,151) — — — 35restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 157 — (121) — (36) —other (income)/deductions––net (1) (13) — — (74) (88)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,951 1,172 124 — 157 5,404provision for taxes on income(b) 821 340 43 — (1) 1,204income from continuing operations 3,130 832 82 — 157 4,201discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 3,121 832 82 — 157 4,192earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.51 0.14 0.01 — 0.03 0.69see end of tables for notes (a) and (b).   three months ended april 3, 2016in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $13,005 $— $— $— $— $13,005cost of sales 2,851 (200) — — (87) 2,565selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,385 (1) — — (15) 3,368research and development expenses 1,731 2 — — (10) 1,723amortization of intangible assets 1,006 (975) — — — 31restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 141 — (116) — (26) —other (income)/deductions––net 330 20 — — (500) (149)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,561 1,153 116 — 638 5,468provision for taxes on income(b), (c) 513 324 (99) — 544 1,282income from continuing operations(c) 3,048 829 215 — 94 4,186discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc.(c) 3,038 829 215 — 94 4,177earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.49 0.13 0.03 — 0.02 0.67(a) for details of adjustments, see “details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income” below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 22.3% in the first quarter of , compared with 23.4% in the first quarter of 2016. this decline was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. (c) gaap reported and non-gaap adjusted amounts for the three months ended april 3, 2016 have been revised from previously reported amounts to reflect the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of january 1, 2016, requiring: (i) excess tax benefits or deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividend equivalents) of share-based compensation to be recognized as a component of the provision for taxes on income (the net tax benefit was $22 million in the first quarter of 2016) and (ii) in the diluted net earnings per share calculation, when applying the treasury stock method for shares that could be repurchased, the assumed proceeds no longer include the amount of excess tax benefit. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1b. adoption of new accounting standards in pfizer’s 2016 financial report. 72details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted incomeadjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items:  three months ended(millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016purchase accounting adjustments    amortization, depreciation and other(a) $1,165 $954cost of sales 7 200total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 1,172 1,153income taxes(b) (340) (324)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 832 829acquisition-related costs    restructuring charges(c) 9 4transaction costs(c) 12 24integration costs(c) 101 87additional depreciation––asset restructuring(d) 3 —total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 124 116income taxes(e) (43) 99total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 82 215discontinued operations    total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc.(f) — —certain significant items    restructuring charges(g) 36 26implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(h) 42 111certain legal matters, net(i) 8 286loss on sale of his net assets(i) 37 —certain asset impairments(i) — 131business and legal entity alignment costs(j) 21 51other(k) 13 34total certain significant items––pre-tax 157 638income taxes(l) 1 (544)total certain significant items––net of tax 157 94total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $1,071 $1,138(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. (c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs. restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. transaction costs primarily represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.(d) included in cost of sales. represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions.(e) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the first quarter of 2016 was unfavorably impacted by the remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities resulting from plant network restructuring activities.(f) included in discontinued operations––net of tax.(g) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions. included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). (h) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended april 2, 2017, included in cost of sales ($26 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($9 million) and research and development expenses ($7 million). for the three months ended april 3, 2016, virtually all included in cost of 73sales ($88 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($12 million) and research and development expenses ($10 million).(i) included in other (income)/deductions—net (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. ).(j) included in other (income)/deductions––net. represents expenses for changes to our infrastructure to align our commercial operations, including costs to internally separate our businesses into distinct legal entities as well as to streamline our intercompany supply operations to better support each business.(k) for the three months ended april 2, 2017, included in other (income)/deductions––net ($7 million) and selling, informational and administrative expenses ($5 million). for the three months ended april 3, 2016, primarily all included in other (income)/deductions––net.(l) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the three months ended april 2, 2017 was unfavorably impacted by the taxes on an incremental charge to amounts previously recorded to write down the his net assets to fair value less costs to sell related to the sale of his net assets to icu medical. the three months ended april 3, 2016 was favorably impacted by benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in february 2016 and finalized in april 2016 to resolve certain claims related to protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position, as well as benefits associated with our venezuela operations. 74analysis of operating segment informationthe following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments—the ih segment and the eh segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information, as well as the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” section of this md&a.the following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended april 2, 2017(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $7,415 $5,364 $— $12,779 $— $12,779cost of sales 849 1,450 136 2,434 36 2,470% of revenue 11.4%27.0%*19.1%*19.3%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,514 708 1,066 3,288 20 3,308research and development expenses 523 252 930 1,705 3 1,708amortization of intangible assets 26 9 — 35 1,151 1,186restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 157 157other (income)/deductions––net (146) (61) 119 (88) 87 (1)income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $4,649 $3,006 $(2,251) $5,404 $(1,453) $3,951see end of tables for notes (a) through (d).   three months ended april 3, 2016(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $7,033 $5,972 $— $13,005 $— $13,005cost of sales 894 1,453 217 2,565 287 2,851% of revenue 12.7%24.3%*19.7%*21.9%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,686 737 946 3,368 16 3,385research and development expenses 562 276 885 1,723 8 1,731amortization of intangible assets 24 7 — 31 975 1,006restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 141 141other (income)/deductions––net (235) (160) 246 (149) 480 330income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $4,103 $3,659 $(2,294) $5,468 $(1,907) $3,561(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment.on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion therapy net assets, his, to icu medical. the operating results of his are included in eh’s operating results through february 2, 2017 and, therefore, financial results for eh for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations, while financial results for eh for the first quarter of 2016 reflect three months of legacy his global operations.the financial results of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, which is primarily outside the u.s., are included in eh’s operating results in our consolidated statement of income, commencing from the acquisition date of december 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations. therefore, in accordance with our international reporting period, our results of operations and eh’s operating results for the first quarter of 2017 reflect approximately two months of legacy astrazeneca small molecule anti-infectives business international operations, which were immaterial.medivation’s and anacor’s commercial operations are included in ih’s operating results in our condensed consolidated statements of income, commencing from their respective acquisition dates of september 28, 2016 and june 24, 2016. therefore, ih’s operating results for the first quarter of 2016 do not include financial results from medivation or anacor. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions for additional information. 75(b) other comprises the costs included in our adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following:  three months ended april 2, 2017  other business activities   (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — (26) 162 136selling, informational and administrative expenses — (1) 1,061 6 1,066research and development expenses 526 181 220 5 930amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (18) — 90 48 119loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(508) $(180) $(1,344) $(219) $(2,251)   three months ended april 3, 2016  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) corporate(iii) other unallocated(iv) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — 40 177 217selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 927 18 946research and development expenses 528 154 197 6 885amortization of intangible assets — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (14) — 226 34 246loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(514) $(154) $(1,390) $(235) $(2,294)(i) wrd—the r&d expenses managed by our wrd organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our ih business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the ih segment via the gpd organization for possible clinical and commercial development. r&d spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. the wrd organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, including eh r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities. in connection with the formation of the gpd organization, effective in the second quarter of 2016, certain development-related functions transferred from wrd to gpd. see note (ii) below for additional information. (ii) gpd––the costs associated with our gpd organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects. in connection with the formation in early 2016 of the gpd organization, effective in the second quarter of 2016, certain development-related functions transferred from wrd and ih to gpd. we have reclassified approximately $78 million of costs from wrd and $76 million of costs from ih to gpd in the first quarter of 2016.(iii) corporate—the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments. effective in the first quarter of 2017, corporate also includes the costs associated with our pfizer medical organization (medical), previously reported as part of other business activities. medical is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations. we have reclassified approximately $27 million of medical costs from other business activities to corporate in the first quarter of 2016 to conform to the current period presentation. in the first quarter of 2017, we recognized a $45 million gain as an offset to cost of sales related to euro, japanese yen and u.k. pound-denominated forward contacts designated as hedges of foreign exchange-denominated intercompany sales.(iv) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs (which include manufacturing variances associated with production). for information purposes only, the following tables present reconciliations of our segment operating results to segment operating results including estimated other costs generally associated with each segment. while we do not manage our segments or have performance goals under such an allocated manner, we believe that some investors may find this information useful in their analyses. 76the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. for information purposes only, for the first quarter of 2017, we estimate that other costs, as described above, for combined wrd and gpd costs of $688 million, and combined corporate and other unallocated costs of $1.4 billion after excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $240 million for the first quarter of 2017 in other (income)/deductions––net); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $39 million for the first quarter of 2017 in other (income)/deductions––net), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows:  three months ended april 2, 2017    estimated other costs associated with ih(ii)  (millions of dollars) innovative health non-gaap adjusted(i), (iii) estimated wrd/gpd(ii) estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii) innovative health with estimated other costs associated withinnovative healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues $7,415 $— $— $7,415cost of sales 849 — 1 850selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,514 — 637 2,151research and development expenses 523 700 192 1,415amortization of intangible assets 26 — — 26restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (146) (18) (38) (203)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 4,649 (681) (792) 3,176  three months ended april 2, 2017    estimated other costs associated with eh(ii)  (millions of dollars) essential healthnon-gaap adjusted(i), (iii) estimated wrd/gpd(ii) estimated corporate/other unallocated(ii) essential health with estimated other costs associated withessential healthnon-gaap adjusted(ii), (iii)revenues $5,364 $— $— $5,364cost of sales 1,450 — 134 1,584selling, informational and administrative expenses 708 — 429 1,137research and development expenses 252 6 32 290amortization of intangible assets 9 — — 9restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (61) — (25) (86)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,006 (6) (570) 2,429(i) amount represents the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. see note (a) above for more information.(ii) represents costs not assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. for a description of these other costs and business activities, see note (b) above.•wrd/gpd––the information provided for wrd and gpd was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the r&d projects associated with each operating segment. •corporate/other unallocated––the information provided for corporate and other unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from research and development and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification and estimates. management believes that the allocations of corporate and other unallocated costs are reasonable.the estimated other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented.(iii) see note (c) below for an explanation of our non-gaap adjusted financial measure.(c) see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a for a definition of these “adjusted income” components.(d) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as restructuring or legal charges), that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.77innovative health operating segment•ih revenues increased $381 million, or 5%, to $7.4 billion in the first quarter of 2017, compared to $7.0 billion in the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on ih revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. ih revenues increased by 6% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.the following provides an analysis of the revenue increase for ih:(millions of dollars) three months ended april 2, 2017acquisitions  xtandi alliance revenues in the u.s. (september 2016 acquisition of medivation) $131   operational growth/(decline)  continued growth from key brands, including ibrance and eliquis globally, as well as lyrica and xeljanz, both primarily in the u.s. 620lower revenues for enbrel in most developed europe markets, primarily due to continued biosimilar competition (117)decline in prevnar 13/prevenar 13 revenues, primarily driven by the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication in the u.s. due to a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the same period in 2016, partially offset by the favorable impact from the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication. international revenues decreased primarily due to the unfavorable timing of government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication, partially offset by modest growth of the adult indication in certain developed europe markets (113)decline in viagra revenues in the u.s. primarily due to lower market demand (51)other operational factors, net (47)operational growth, net 423   unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (42)ih revenues increase $381total ih revenues from emerging markets were $933 million in the first quarter of 2017, compared to $872 million in the first quarter of 2016, reflecting an 8% operational increase in the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 1%.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 1.3 percentage points in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, driven by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. the decrease in cost of sales of 5% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, was primarily driven by favorable product mix and favorable foreign exchange, partially offset by an increase in royalty expense.•the decrease in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 10% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter of 2016, partially offset by additional investment across several of our key products.•the decrease in research and development expenses of 7% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily reflects the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by increased costs associated with our oncology programs, including legacy medivation operations.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily reflects a net decrease in royalty income, due to lower royalty income for enbrel, resulting from the expiration on october 31, 2016 of the 36-month royalty period under the collaboration agreement for enbrel in the u.s. and canada (the collaboration period under the agreement expired on october 31, 2013), partially offset by the addition of xtandi royalty-related income.essential health operating segment•eh revenues decreased $608 million, or 10%, to $5.4 billion in the first quarter of 2017, compared to $6.0 billion in the same period in 2016. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on eh revenues in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. eh revenues decreased by 9% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. excluding the performance of his in both periods, eh revenues declined 6% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.78the following provides an analysis of the revenue decrease for eh:(millions of dollars) three months ended april 2, 2017   disposition  approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016 $(207)   operational growth/(decline)  decline from peri-loe products, including pristiq in the u.s., which lost marketing exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2017, lyrica in most developed europe markets and zyvox in developed europe markets and in the u.s. (253)decline in the legacy established products portfolio (153)growth in the pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio as well as growth in biosimilars, primarily driven by inflectra in certain developed europe markets and in the u.s. 86other operational factors, net (6)operational decline, net (534)   unfavorable impact of foreign exchange (74)eh revenues decrease $(608)total eh revenues in developed markets were $3.7 billion in the first quarter of 2017, compared to $4.4 billion in the first quarter of 2016, reflecting a 14% operational decline in the first quarter of 2017, primarily driven by operational declines in the peri-loe products portfolio, legacy his operations as well as the legacy established products portfolio, partially offset by operational growth in biosimilars. foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on total eh revenues in developed markets in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016. excluding the performance of his in both periods, eh revenues in developed markets declined 10% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.total eh revenues from emerging markets were $1.6 billion in the first quarter of 2017, compared to $1.6 billion in the first quarter of 2016, reflecting 5% operational growth in the first quarter of 2017, primarily driven by operational growth from the pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, largely offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 4%. excluding the performance of his in both periods, eh revenues in emerging markets grew 6% operationally in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 2.7 percentage points in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to:◦cost increases reflecting the shift to eh of certain legacy hospira costs that were previously unallocated to eh as a result of harmonizing the hospira cost policy;◦charges related to a product recall that occurred in the first quarter of 2017; and ◦the impact of product losses of exclusivity, partially offset by:◦the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016.•the slight decrease in cost of sales in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily reflects:◦the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016;◦the favorable impact of foreign exchange; and◦a net decrease in royalty expense, partially offset by:◦cost increases reflecting the shift to eh of certain legacy hospira costs that were previously unallocated to eh as a result of harmonizing the hospira cost policy; and◦charges related to a product recall that occurred in the first quarter of 2017.•selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 4% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two 79months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016. •research and development expenses decreased 9% in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to the inclusion of approximately one month of legacy his domestic operations and approximately two months of legacy his international operations in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the inclusion of three months of legacy his global operations in the first quarter of 2016, and the close-out of certain post-marketing clinical trials.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in 2016, primarily reflects the non-recurrence of a resolution of a contract disagreement in the first quarter of 2016, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange.selected balance sheet information by operating segmentfor information purposes only, the following table contains selected balance sheet information by operating segment, reflecting the more meaningful operating accounts at the segment level. this information has been developed for annual disclosure purposes only. although we manage our assets and liabilities on a total company basis, not by operating segment, as many of our operating assets are shared or commingled, we believe that some investors may find this information useful.  as of december 31, 2016(millions of dollars) ih(a), (b) eh(a), (b) corporate/unallocated(a), (c) total companytrade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts $4,615 $3,610 $— $8,225inventories 3,027 3,756 — 6,783trade accounts payable 2,808 1,695 34 4,536other selected balance sheet information:        noncurrent inventories(d) 53 630 — 683(a) the selected balance sheet information is presented as of december 31, 2016 after all significant intercompany balances and transactions between legal entities have been eliminated. for subsidiaries operating outside the u.s., the selected balance sheet information is included as of november 30, 2016.the selected balance sheet information by operating segment has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of pfizer and does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had either of the operating segments been managed as a standalone company as of, or prior to, december 31, 2016 and, additionally, does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had separate financial statements been prepared for either of the operating segments on a carve-out basis as of december 31, 2016.management believes that the selected balance sheet information by operating segment is reasonable. (b) the selected balance sheet information for each operating segment has been developed as follows:•trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts––significantly all amounts were derived using specific identification methods.•inventories (including noncurrent portion)––these amounts were derived using specific identification methods and with respect to shared inventory components, these amounts were derived using proportional allocation methods based on associated manufacturing costs and related product-specific inventory.•trade accounts payable––the amounts were derived using specific identification methods and using proportional allocation methods based on associated manufacturing costs, certain research and development costs or other operating costs, as appropriate.(c) corporate/unallocated includes a portion of the following line item:•trade accounts payable––the portion of this account included as corporate/unallocated primarily relates to liabilities associated with specific legal entities not identified with operating segments. (d) included in other noncurrent assets on the consolidated balance sheet.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomechanges in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the first quarter of 2017 reflect the following: •for foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the australian dollar, brazilian real and the canadian dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro.•for unrealized holding losses on derivative financial instruments, net and unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities, net, reflect the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of realized amounts into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for benefit plans: actuarial gains, net, primarily reflects the reclassification into income for amounts related to (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in other comprehensive income; and (ii) settlement activity, as well as the impact of favorable foreign exchange. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.80analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.for information about certain balances in trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, see also the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a.for information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.for information related to changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 6. accumulated other comprehensive loss, excluding noncontrolling interests.the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of april 2, 2017, compared to december 31, 2016, generally reflect, among other things, the impact of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the following explanations exclude the impact of the acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, the sale of his to icu medical (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment and note 9. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill for additional information) and foreign exchange.•for trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business.•for inventories, the change reflects the build of inventory primarily for new product launches and to meet targeted levels for certain products, partially offset by inventory reductions in the normal course of business, including those related to demand.•for other current assets, the change reflects an increase in vat receivable balances due to a change in our supply chain, partially offset by a decrease in receivables from royalty agreements as a result of contract terminations, as well as the timing of receipts and payments in the normal course of business.•for pp&e, the change reflects depreciation during the period, partially offset by capital additions in the normal course of business.•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change primarily reflects amortization for the period.•for other noncurrent assets, the change reflects a decrease in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments.•for trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business, including the impact of efforts to improve working capital efficiencies.•for accrued compensation and related items, the decrease reflects normal bonus payments made to employees, partially offset by current year’s accruals.•for other current liabilities, the change reflects an increase due to the timing of payments for accrued interest, security purchases, restructuring and charitable contributions, as well as net funds due to icu medical for net economic benefit payments (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh)), partially offset by payments to settle liabilities related to the closeout of bococizumab clinical studies and restructuring matters, and payments in the normal course of business.•for pension benefit obligations, net, the decrease primarily reflects the $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in january 2017.•for other noncurrent liabilities, the change reflects an increase in deferred revenue from a milestone payment received from merck for the ertugliflozin collaboration agreement (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2c. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: collaboration arrangement) and deferred consideration for transitional and manufacturing service agreements received from icu medical (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. 81acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh)) and an increase in liabilities associated with our derivative financial instruments, partially offset by distributions from deferred compensation plans, and changes in accruals in the normal course of business.•for treasury stock, the change reflects $5 billion paid to citibank in february 2017 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for additional information.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows   three months ended  (millions of dollars) april 2, 2017 april 3, 2016 % changecash provided by/(used in):      operating activities(a) $1,589 $1,808 (12)investing activities 4,772 4,355 10financing activities(a) (4,921) (7,171) (31)effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 21 (73) *net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $1,461 $(1,080) **calculation not meaningful.(a) amounts for the three months ended april 3, 2016 have been revised from previously reported amounts to reflect the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of january 1, 2016, that requires that cash flows present (i) excess tax benefits as other tax accounts, net as part of operating activities, rather than financing activities on a prospective basis beginning in the year of adoption, and (ii) cash paid by us when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes as a cash outflow from financing activities, rather than operating activities and is reflected in the year of adoption. the year-to-date excess tax benefit was $26 million in the first quarter of 2016. for cash paid by us for withholding purposes, $131 million for the first quarter of 2016 is presented as financing activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. (see notes to consolidated financial statements—note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards).in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $1.6 billion in the first three months of 2017, compared to $1.8 billion in the same period in 2016. the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the decrease in our net income after adjustments for the non-cash changes, as well as the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business.in the first three months of 2017, the line item other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items, the decrease in the provision for bad debt expense and an increase in net gains on sales of property, plant and equipment.in the first three months of 2017 and 2016, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities. for additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a. for additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances see also “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” in this md&a. investing activitiesour net cash provided by investing activities was $4.8 billion in the first three months of 2017, compared to $4.4 billion in the same period in 2016. the increase in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to:•net proceeds from sales of investments of $5.4 billion in the first three months of 2017, compared to net proceeds from sales of investments of $4.8 billion in the first three months of 2016, 82partially offset by:•an increase in cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $475 million, primarily for the acquisition of astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business in the first three months of 2017 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisitions, sale of hospira infusion systems net assets, collaborative arrangement, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions).financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $4.9 billion in first three months of 2017, compared to $7.2 billion in the same period in 2016. the decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•the issuance of long-term debt of $5.3 billion in the first three months of 2017 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7d. financial instruments: long-term debt), partially offset by:•net payments on short-term borrowings of $2.1 billion in the first three months of 2017, compared to net proceeds on short-term borrowings of $1.1 billion in the first three months of 2016.analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. we continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. we target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our r&d activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;•share repurchases;•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both s&p and moody’s. see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities.83selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) april 2, 2017 december 31, 2016selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $4,057 $2,595short-term investments(a) 10,503 15,255long-term investments(a) 7,346 7,116  21,906 24,967debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 7,680 10,688long-term debt 36,330 31,398  44,010 42,085selected net financial liabilities(b) $(22,103) $(17,118)     working capital(c) $11,014 $7,834ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.44:1 1.25:1total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity per common share(d) $9.80 $9.81(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) the increase in selected net financial liabilities is predominantly a result of the increase in long term debt. we retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high-quality financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. both moody’s and s&p rating agencies maintained our strong investment-grade corporate debt rating subsequent to the acquisitions of medivation and anacor. for additional information, see the “credit ratings” section of this md&a.(c) the increase in working capital is primarily due to a decrease in short-term borrowings, which occurred as a result of our issuance of long-term debt, and the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by a decrease in short-term investments.(d) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock).for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.on march 17, 2017, we completed a public offering of $1.065 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2047 with an interest rate of 4.20%, and on march 6, 2017, we completed a public offering of €4.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 0.23% (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7d. financial instruments: long-term debt).domestic and international short-term fundsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. we generally hold up to $10 billion of these short-term funds in u.s. tax jurisdictions. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). repatriation of overseas funds can result in additional u.s. federal, state and local income tax payments. we record u.s. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s., no accrual for u.s. taxes is provided.accounts receivablewe continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. historically, payments from a number of these european governments and government agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. specifically, we received delayed payments for 2016 revenues from the greek government; the vast majority of greece government receivables pertain to 2017 revenues. also, the greek government has restructured its debt to other third parties in the third quarter of 2016. we determined our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect these events, and have $33 million in net receivables from the greek government as of april 2, 2017. reported revenues from all customers in greece for the quarter ended april 2, 2017 were $62 million. we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the 84governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments).as of april 2, 2017, we had about $490 million in aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in italy, spain, greece and portugal where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $62 million, were as follows: $43 million in italy; $14 million in portugal; $3 million in greece; and $2 million in spain.although certain european governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs.we will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts.our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. for information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions included in our 2016 financial report.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debtdate of last rating change rating rating moody’s(a) p-1 a1 october 2009s&p(b) a-1+ aa october 2009(a) in september 2016, moody’s updated their credit outlook from negative outlook to stable.(b) in april 2016, s&p updated their credit outlook from negative watch to stable.debt capacitywe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. as of april 2, 2017, we had access to $7.7 billion of lines of credit, of which $676 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $7.7 billion were unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request. also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2021, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.global economic conditions––generalthe global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. global economic conditions––u.k.in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as “brexit”. in january 2017, the u.k. prime minister announced a 12-point plan of negotiating objectives and confirmed that the u.k. government will not seek continued membership of the eu single market. in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. this 85process is expected to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu.we generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the u.k. in the first quarter of 2017. however, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu. in addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable.global economic conditions––venezuela operations our venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. in the second quarter of 2015, the venezuelan government identified three official rates of exchange. these are the cencoex rate of 6.3; the sicad rate of 13.5 (as of february 2017); and the simadi rate of 700 (as of february 2017). effective in march 2016, the cencoex rate was replaced by the dipro rate of 10 (as of february 2017); the sicad rate ceased to be offered; and the simadi rate was planned to be replaced by the dicom rate, but the dicom rate is not published. the venezuelan government continues to publish the simadi rate, which is commonly referred to as the dicom rate, and that rate has grown from 206 in march 2016 to about 717 (as of may 2017). based on recent conditions in venezuela, we resolved that our venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation are no longer expected to be substantially settled at the venezuelan government cencoex official rate of 6.3 or the dipro official rate of 10, but at a rate of 500 at the end of the second quarter and third quarter of 2016, and 670 at the end of the fourth quarter of 2016 and at the end of the first quarter of 2017.we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the venezuelan currency or whether our use of the dicom rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. further, other potential actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. we continue to operate under adverse conditions in venezuela.on july 11, 2016, the venezuelan government administration announced a new program under a state of emergency decree that is intended to control the use of raw materials, production and distribution of products, specifically for medicines and foods. it is uncertain how this program will be applied to pfizer in venezuela. we continue to operate in venezuela and have $8 million of net monetary assets and $49 million of non-monetary assets, excluding inventory carried at lower of cost or market, in venezuela at february 26, 2017, our international quarter-end.off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. these indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of april 2, 2017, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications were not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreementsour october 2014 $11 billion share-purchase plan was exhausted in the first quarter of 2017. in december 2015, the board of directors authorized an $11 billion share repurchase program, and share repurchases commenced thereunder in the first quarter of 2017.86on february 2, 2017, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. the following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced accelerated share repurchase agreements:  three months ended(shares in millions, dollars in billions) april 22017(a) april 3,2016(b)shares of common stock purchased 126 136cost of purchase $5.0 $5.0(a) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement with citibank. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities” in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q.(b) represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on march 8, 2016. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 12. equity in our 2016 financial report.at april 2, 2017, our remaining share-purchase authorization was approximately $6.4 billion.dividends on common stockin april 2017, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.32 per share, payable on june 1, 2017, to shareholders of record at the close of business on may 12, 2017.new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of april 2, 2017the following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin may 2014, the fasb issued amended guidance related to revenue from contracts with customers. the new guidance introduces a new principles-based framework for revenue recognition and disclosure. since its issuance the fasb has issued six asus, amending the guidance and effective date, and the sec has rescinded certain related sec guidance; the most recent of these changes was issued in december 2016. january 1, 2018.  we have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this guidance across our various business arrangements and revenue-related activities, and do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial statements and revenue recognition practices, or our internal controls. under the development portion of our collaboration agreements, we expect the milestone payments, which are recorded in other (income)/deductions––net, to be amortized over the development period rather than the life of the agreement, as we currently do. we continue to monitor additional changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the fasb, which may impact our current conclusions. in addition, we continue to monitor other changes, such as changes in our business, new collaboration arrangements, business combinations, etc., which may impact our current conclusions prior to the adoption date.87standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin january 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. among other things, the new guidance makes the following targeted changes to existing guidance:1. requires certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. however, an entity may choose to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investment of the same issuer.2. requires a qualitative assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values to identify impairment.3. requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or in the accompanying notes to the financial statements. january 1, 2018. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, as of april 2, 2017, we have $553 million in available-for-sale equity securities and approximately $1.2 billion of restricted stock and private equity securities which will be subject to the new rules. further, for the three months ended april 2, 2017, we recognized $176 million of unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities in other comprehensive income/(loss), which would have been recorded to other (income)/deductions––net under the new rules.in august 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on the classification of certain transactions in the statement of cash flows. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, upon adoption, we expect to reclassify approximately $362 million of cash outflows related to debt redemption in 2016 from operating activities to financing activities. we also expect to reclassify approximately $28 million of cash inflows from trust-owned life insurance contracts in 2016 from operating activities to investing activities. in addition, the new guidance may impact the classification of certain cash flows related to contingent consideration in a business acquisition, depending on the ultimate settlement amount of the contingency.in october 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on the presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, our restricted cash balances as of the end of 2016 were approximately $18.1 million of short-term restricted cash and $45.3 million of long-term restricted cash.in october 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on income tax accounting. the new guidance replaces the prohibition against recognizing current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party with a requirement to do so, unless the asset transferred is inventory.  january 1, 2018.  we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, we anticipate that after adoption, our effective tax rate could be impacted by the immediate recognition of the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers other than inventory. the impact of adoption will be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings.in january 2017, the fasb issued new guidance to clarify the definition of a business. the new guidance provides a new framework for determining whether business development transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. if the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset, the transaction will not qualify for treatment as a business. the new guidance also requires that to be considered a business, a set of integrated activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs, without regard as to whether a market participant could replace missing elements. in addition, the new guidance narrows the definition of the term “output” to make it consistent with how outputs are described in the updated revenue recognition guidance. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this guidance. however, we anticipate that after adoption, fewer transactions will be accounted for as business acquisitions (decreasing the amount of goodwill incurred and potentially increasing ipr&d expense) or disposals of a business.in february 2017, the fasb issued amended guidance related to the derecognition of nonfinancial assets.  january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted. we are assessing the impact of theprovisions of this new guidance on ourconsolidated financial statements.88standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin march 2017, the fasb issued guidance on the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost. under the new rules, entities that sponsor defined benefit plans will present net benefit cost as follows:1. service cost will be included in the same income statement line items where other employee compensation costs are reported.2. the other components of net benefit cost will be presented outside of income from operations, if such a subtotal is presented.3. only the service cost component will be capitalized, when applicable (for example, as a cost of inventory, internal-use software, or a self-constructed fixed asset).if a separate line item is used to present the other components of net benefit cost, it should have an appropriate description. if a separate line item or items is not used, the line item or items in the income statement where the other components of net benefit cost are included must be disclosed. january 1, 2018. we have not yet completed our review of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements, although we anticipate that after adoption, the net benefit costs other than service costs will be reclassified to other (income)/deductions—net from their current classification within cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, and research and development expenses. effective january 1, 2018, future accruals under the pfizer consolidated pension plan (our largest u. s. defined benefit plan), will freeze, and the pfizer defined contribution savings plan will provide additional annual contributions to those previously accruing benefits under the pfizer consolidated pension plan. this change will result in elimination of future service costs for the plan.in may 2017, the fasb issued new guidance on the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards. the new guidance clarifies that changes in the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award be accounted for as a modification unless all the following conditions are met:1.the fair value of the modified award is the same as the fair value of the original award immediately before the original award is modified.2.the vesting conditions of the modified award are the same as the vesting conditions of the original award immediately before the original award is modified.3.the modification does not change the classification of the award as an equity instrument or a liability instrument. january 1, 2018. early application is permitted, including in interim periods. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.in february 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on leases. the new asu provides guidance for both lessee and lessor accounting models. among other things, the new guidance requires that a right of use asset and a lease liability be recognized for leases with a duration of greater than one year. january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this guidance. however, we anticipate recognition of at least $1 billion of additional assets and corresponding liabilities on our balance sheet. we are currently assessing the potential impact of embedded leases on our financial statements.in march 2017, the fasb issued new guidance that shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium. the new guidance requires the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. january 1, 2019. early application is permitted, including in interim periods, so long as any adjustments are reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period in which the guidance is applied. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.in june 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments. the new guidance replaces the incurred losses methodology in current gaap with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses using an allowance account.  january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted as of fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.in january 2017, the fasb issued new guidance for goodwill impairment testing. the new guidance eliminates the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. under the new guidance the goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, although it cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.  january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. however, we do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.89forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “forecast,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, the disposition of the his net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2017” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives set forth in the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, the benefits expected from our business development transactions, and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to our pension and postretirement plans during 2017 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products; and uncertainties regarding our ability to address the comments in complete response letters received by us with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of the fda;•the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;•risks associated with interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication;•the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all;•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;•the implementation by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•risks related to our ability to develop and launch biosimilars, including risks associated with “at risk” launches, defined as the marketing of a product by pfizer before the final resolution of litigation (including any appeals) brought by a third party alleging that such marketing would infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party;•the ability to meet competition from generic, branded and biosimilar products after the loss or expiration of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;90•difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions or voluntary recall of a product;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products;•the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on the pharmaceutical industry as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort;• the impact of any u.s. healthcare reform or legislation, including any repeal, substantial modification or invalidation of any or all of the provisions of the u.s. patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, and the passage or failure of the american health care act;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action and/or policy efforts affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines, manufacturer prices and/or price increases that could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses and settlement costs;•the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, as well as tax issues;•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates and the volatility following the u.k. referendum in which voters approved the exit from the eu;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesale distributors, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;•the end result of any negotiations between the u.k. government and the eu regarding the terms of the u.k.’s exit from the eu, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu;91•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, in the u.s. and other countries;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate;•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; •the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items;•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives and of the internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure;•the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; •risks related to internal control over financial reporting; and•risks and uncertainties related to our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, including the possibility that expected cost savings related to the acquisition of hospira and accretion related to the acquisitions of hospira, anacor and medivation will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transactions making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities.we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects.our 2016 form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. the selected balance sheet information by operating segment has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of pfizer and does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had any of the operating segments been managed as a standalone company as of, or prior to, december 31, 2016 and, additionally, does not purport to reflect amounts that would have been reported had separate financial statements been prepared for any of the operating segments on a carve-out basis as of december 31, 2016.92this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings in part i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.93