item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsintroductionsee the glossary of defined terms at the beginning of this quarterly report on form 10-q for terms used throughout this md&a. our md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:●overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookbeginning on page 50 this section provides information about the following: our business; our performance during the second quarter and first six months of 2016 and 2015; our operating environment; the global economic environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2016. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomebeginning on page 62 this section includes a revenues overview section as well as the following sub-sections:  ○  revenues - major productsbeginning on page 66 this sub-section provides revenue information for several of our major biopharmaceutical products.  ○  revenues - selected product descriptionsbeginning on page 67 this sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products.  ○  product developments - biopharmaceuticalbeginning on page 71 this sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.  ○  costs and expensesbeginning on page 74 this sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.  ○  provision for taxes on incomebeginning on page 77 this sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.  ○  non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)beginning on page 78 this sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. ●analysis of operating segment informationbeginning on page 84 this section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomebeginning on page 89 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsbeginning on page 90 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts. ●analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flowsbeginning on page 91 this section provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first six months of 2016 and 2015. ●analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourcesbeginning on page 92 this section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of july 3, 2016 and december 31, 2015, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of july 3, 2016 and december 31, 2015. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer’s future activities. ●new accounting standardsbeginning on page 96 this section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. ●forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsbeginning on page 97 this section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a, relating to, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. such forward-looking statements are based on management’s plans and assumptions, which are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. also included in this section is a discussion of legal proceedings and contingencies. certain amounts in our md&a may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.48the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 %change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 %changerevenues $13,147 $11,853 11 $26,152 $22,717 15             cost of sales 3,174 2,180 46 6,026 4,018 50% of revenues 24.1% 18.4%   23.0% 17.7%               selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,471 3,386 2 6,856 6,491 6% of revenues 26.4% 28.6%   26.2% 28.6%               research and development expenses 1,748 1,734 1 3,478 3,620 (4)% of revenues 13.3% 14.6%   13.3% 15.9%               amortization of intangible assets 961 872 10 1,966 1,811 9% of revenues 7.3% 7.4%   7.5% 8.0%               restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 316 86 * 457 146 *% of revenues 2.4% 0.7%   1.7% 0.6%               other (income)/deductions––net 1,068 55 * 1,398 9 *income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 2,410 3,539 (32) 5,971 6,621 (10)% of revenues 18.3% 29.9%   22.8% 29.1%               provision for taxes on income 375 905 (59) 910 1,610 (43)effective tax rate 15.6% 25.6%   15.2% 24.3%               income from continuing operations 2,035 2,635 (23) 5,060 5,011 1% of revenues 15.5% 22.2%   19.4% 22.1%               discontinued operations––net of tax 1 1 (14) 1 6 (89)             net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 2,035 2,635 (23) 5,061 5,017 1% of revenues 15.5% 22.2%   19.4% 22.1%               less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 16 9 82 25 14 77net income attributable to pfizer inc. $2,019 $2,626 (23) $5,036 $5,002 1% of revenues 15.4% 22.2%   19.3% 22.0%               earnings per common share––basic:            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.33 $0.43 (23) $0.82 $0.81 1discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.33 $0.43 (23) $0.82 $0.81 1             earnings per common share––diluted:            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.33 $0.42 (21) $0.82 $0.80 3discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — — —net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.33 $0.42 (21) $0.82 $0.80 3             cash dividends paid per common share $0.30 $0.28 7 $0.60 $0.56 7* calculation not meaningful.49overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines, vaccines and medical devices, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies (alliance revenues).we manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain ipr&d projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. for additional information, see the discussion in the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information and the “our strategy” section of this md&a below.the majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2015 form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. we also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. for additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “our operating environment” and “the global economic environment” sections of this md&a and of our 2015 financial report and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2015 form 10-k.the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the u.s. is as of and for the three and six months ended may 29, 2016 and may 24, 2015. the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for u.s. subsidiaries is as of and for the three and six months ended july 3, 2016 and june 28, 2015.references to operational variances in this md&a pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange as well as the negative currency impact related to venezuela. the operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current year u.s. dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. we believe presenting these operational variances provides useful information in evaluating the results of our business because exchange rate changes, while part of our ongoing business, can mask positive or negative trends in the business and are not within our control.on june 24, 2016 (the acquisition date), we completed our acquisition of anacor for $99.25 per share. the total fair value of consideration transferred for anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ($4.5 billion, net of cash acquired), plus $698 million debt assumed. commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities and cash flows of anacor. the operating results for anacor for five days from june 24, 2016 to july 3, 2016 were immaterial. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions for additional information. on april 6, 2016, we announced that the merger agreement between pfizer and allergan entered into on november 22, 2015 was terminated by mutual agreement of the companies. the decision was driven by the actions announced by the u.s. department of treasury on april 4, 2016, which the companies concluded qualified as an “adverse tax law change” under the merger agreement. in connection with the termination of the merger agreement, on april 8, 2016 (which falls into pfizer’s second fiscal quarter), pfizer paid allergan $150 million (pre-tax) for reimbursement of allergan’s expenses associated with the terminated transaction (see the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net). pfizer and allergan also released each other from any and all claims in connection with the merger agreement.on september 3, 2015, we completed our acquisition of hospira and, commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of hospira. as a result, legacy hospira operations are reflected in our results of operations, eh’s operating results, and cash flows for the second quarter and first six months of 2016, but not for the second quarter and first six months of 2015. legacy hospira assets and liabilities are reflected in our balance sheets as of july 3, 2016 and december 31, 2015. see the “our business development initiatives” and the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” 50sections of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions for additional information. our 2016 performancerevenues––second quarter 2016revenues in the second quarter of 2016 were $13.1 billion, an increase of 11% compared to the same period in 2015. this reflects an operational increase of $1.6 billion, or 13%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $302 million, or 3%.revenues––first six months 2016revenues in the first six months of 2016 were $26.2 billion, an increase of 15% compared to the same period in 2015. this reflects an operational increase of $4.5 billion, or 20%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.0 billion, or 5%.compared with the first six months of 2015, revenues in the first six months of 2016 were favorably impacted by approximately $800 million as a result of the first six months of 2016 having four additional selling days in the u.s. and four additional selling days in international markets. this imbalance in selling days will be offset in the fourth quarter of 2016 resulting in essentially the same number of selling days in 2016 as 2015.the following provides an analysis of the second quarter and the first six months of 2016 operational revenue growth for pfizer standalone revenues (excluding hospira):  three months ended six months ended(billions of dollars) july 3, 2016 july 3, 2016operational revenues––pfizer-standalone increase:    operational consolidated revenues increase $1.6 $4.5less: revenues from legacy hospira  (1.1) (2.3)operational revenues––pfizer-standalone increase $0.5 $2.1     components of operational revenues––pfizer-standalone increase:    operational revenue growth from certain key products––net $0.9 $2.9operational revenue decrease due to product losses of exclusivity and the co-promotion expiration (0.4) (0.8)operational revenues––pfizer-standalone increase $0.5 $2.1see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––revenues and product developments––revenues––overview” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance.income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income––second quarter 2016income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income for the second quarter of 2016 was $2.4 billion, compared to $3.5 billion in the second quarter of 2015, primarily reflecting, among other items, in addition to the operational and foreign exchange impacts for revenues described above:•higher cost of sales (up $994 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a);•higher asset impairments (up $792 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net);•higher restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (up $230 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives);•higher charges for legal matters (up $161 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net);•higher amortization of intangible assets (up $89 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets” section of this md&a); •higher selling, informational and administrative expenses (up $84 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative expenses (si&a) expenses” section of this md&a); and •lower other, net (down $80 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net).51income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income––––first six months 2016income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income for the first six months of 2016 was $6.0 billion, compared to $6.6 billion in the first six months of 2015, primarily reflecting, among other items, in addition to the operational and foreign exchange impacts for revenues described above:•higher cost of sales (up $2.0 billion) (see also the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a);•higher asset impairments (up $922 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net); •higher charges for legal matters (up $435 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net);•higher selling, informational and administrative expenses (up $365 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative expenses (si&a) expenses” section of this md&a);•higher restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (up $311 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives); •higher amortization of intangible assets (up $155 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets” section of this md&a); and•lower net gains on asset disposals (down $155 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net),partially offset by:•lower research and development expenses (down $141 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––research and development (r&d) expenses” section of this md&a);•higher other, net (up $76 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net); and•lower charges for business and legal entity alignment costs (down $54 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net).for information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters.our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesintellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. we have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2015 financial report for information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan impacting product revenues and (ii) recent losses and expected losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years, including, among others, pristiq in the u.s. in march 2017 and viagra in the u.s. in late 2017. for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2015 form 10-k.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “revenues––major products” and “revenues––selected product descriptions” sections of this md&a. for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. for additional information, see the “government regulation and price constraints” section in part i, item 1, “business” of our 2015 form 10-k. 52we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:•$63 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $68 million in the second quarter of 2015, and $159 million in the first six months of 2016 and $156 million in the first six months of 2015, recorded as a reduction to revenues related to the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and •$92 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $56 million in the second quarter of 2015, and $124 million in the first six months of 2016 and $89 million in the first six month of 2015, recorded in selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs.regulatory environment/pricing and access––government and other payer group pressuresgovernments, mcos and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to patients and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. in the u.s., a primary government activity with implications for pharmaceutical pricing is deficit reduction. any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. significant medicare reductions could also result if congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program.consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue.additionally, policy efforts designed specifically to reduce patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions. the candidates for the 2016 u.s. presidential elections have introduced such policy proposals, and a november 2015 u.s. department of health and human services forum dedicated to drug pricing could lead to further proposals in the future. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we continue to work with stakeholders to ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system.the aca, which expanded the role of the u.s. government as a healthcare payer, is accelerating changes in the u.s. healthcare marketplace, and the potential for additional pricing and access pressures continues to be significant. many of these developments may impact drug utilization, in particular branded drug utilization. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca originally to be imposed in 2018 (now to be imposed in 2020, per the terms of the fiscal year 2016 omnibus appropriations legislation), are already scaling back healthcare benefits. some health plans and pbms are seeking greater pricing predictability from pharmaceutical manufacturers in contractual negotiations. other health plans and pbms are increasing their focus on spending on specialty medicines by implementing co-insurance in place of a flat co-payment. because co-insurance passes on a percentage of a drug’s cost to the patient, this shift has the potential to significantly increase patient out-of-pocket costs.overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. for additional information, see the “regulatory environment––pipeline productivity” and “competition” sections of our 2015 financial report.53the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. •we believe that patients, who are experiencing increases in co-pays and restrictions on access to medicines as payers seek to control costs, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. we are exposed to negative pricing pressure in various markets around the world. the u.s. has highly competitive insurance markets, and europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets have government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to restricted access to and lower prices for new medicines.•we continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets, including greece, where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. for further information about our accounts receivable, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.•significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates, including those changes resulting from the volatility following the u.k. referendum in which voters approved the exit from the eu, can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” and the “our financial guidance for 2016” sections of this md&a. •in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted to leave the eu. the u.k. government has not formally notified the european council of their intention to leave the eu, which would begin a two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. this process is expected to be highly complex, and, if needed, may be bilaterally extended. the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu.however, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu. in addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable.despite the challenging financial markets, pfizer maintains a strong financial position. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both s&p and moody’s. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2015 form 10-k.54our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our products and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize access to patients and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. commercial operationswe manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: pfizer innovative health (ih) and pfizer essential health (eh). effective in the second quarter of 2016, our segments were reorganized to reflect that we now manage our innovative pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare operations as one business segment, pfizer innovative health (previously these businesses were managed as two segments: the gip segment and the voc segment). we have revised prior-period information to reflect the reorganization. also, in the second quarter of 2016, we changed the name of our established products business to pfizer essential health. the ih and eh segments are each led by a single manager. each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain ipr&d projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets. as ih leadership assesses how to most efficiently manage the ih segment operations, we will assess the impact, if any, that any such changes may have on our reporting units.some additional information about our business segments follows:ih segmenteh segmentih focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare. key therapeutic areas include vaccines, oncology, inflammation/immunology, cardiovascular/metabolic, neuroscience/pain, rare diseases and consumer healthcare and include leading brands, such as prevnar/prevenar 13, xeljanz, eliquis, lyrica (u.s., japan and certain other markets), enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada) and viagra (u.s. and canada), as well as several well-known, otc consumer products.  eh includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars and infusion systems. eh also includes a new eh research and development organization as well as our contract manufacturing business.we expect that the ih biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to help ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by ih are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers.eh is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. eh leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. additionally, eh leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. in addition, eh may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies.effective as of the beginning of 2016, the following changes impact eh:•our entire contract manufacturing business, pfizer centreone (previously known as pfizer centresource or pcs), is now part of eh. pfizer centreone consists of (i) the revenues and expenses of legacy pfizer's contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including the revenues and expenses related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis; and (ii) the revenues and expenses of legacy hospira's one-2-one sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation, which has been included in eh since we acquired hospira on september 3, 2015. prior to 2016, pcs was managed outside our operating segments as part of pgs and reported as "other business activities". we have reclassified prior period pcs operating results ($133 million of pcs revenues and $30 million of pcs earnings in the second quarter of 2015, and $244 million of pcs revenues and $52 million of pcs earnings in the first six months of 2015) to conform to the current period presentation as part of eh. 55•in connection with the formation of a new eh r&d organization, certain functions transferred from pfizer’s wrd organization to the new eh r&d organization. the new r&d organization within eh expects to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. we have reclassified approximately $67 million of costs in the second quarter of 2015 and $134 million of costs in the first six months of 2015 from wrd to eh to conform to the current period presentation as part of eh.effective as of the beginning of the second quarter of 2016, the following changes impact ih:•in connection with the formation of the gpd organization, a new unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios, certain development-related functions transferred from ih to gpd. we have reclassified approximately $76 million of costs in the first quarter of 2016, approximately $73 million of costs in the second quarter of 2015 and approximately $147 million of costs in the first six months of 2015 from ih to gpd to conform to the current period presentation as part of gpd.for additional information about our operating structure, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.for additional information about the 2016 performance for each of our operating segments, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.research and development operationswe continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules––immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars, which are being developed by our newly formed eh r&d organization. while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek to enhance our pipeline of potential future products by entering into collaborations, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost, to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products.in the first quarter of 2016, we announced the gpd organization, a new, unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products. gpd is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. gpd combines certain previously separate development-related functions from the ih business and the wrd organization to achieve a development capability that is expected to deliver high-quality, efficient, and well-executed clinical programs by enabling greater speed, greater cost efficiencies, and reduced complexity across our development organizations.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments––biopharmaceutical” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline and maximize the value of our in-line products, see the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. for additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation. for information on risks 56related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see "risks related to intellectual property" in part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2015 form 10-k.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.on march 8, 2016, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with gs&co. to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. this agreement was entered into pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase authorization. in june 2016, we completed the agreement. for additional information, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources––share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreements” section of this md&a, “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities" in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we are especially interested in opportunities in our six high-priority therapeutic areas––immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases––and in emerging markets and essential health medicines, including biosimilars. we continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen one or both of our businesses and their capabilities, such as our recent acquisitions of hospira and anacor, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies, including our collaborations with cellectis sa, opko health, inc. and merck kgaa. we assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses. we are continuing to consider whether a further separation of our ih and eh businesses would be in the best interests of our stockholders. however, no decision has been made regarding any such potential separation; we anticipate making a decision regarding whether to pursue any such potential separation by no later than the end of 2016. for additional information on our business development activities, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies.acquisition of hospiradescription of transactionon september 3, 2015 (the acquisition date), we acquired hospira, a leading provider of sterile injectable drugs and infusion technologies as well as a provider of biosimilars, for approximately $16.1 billion in cash ($15.7 billion, net of cash acquired). hospira is now a subsidiary of pfizer. the combination of local pfizer and hospira entities may be pending in various jurisdictions and integration is subject to completion of various local legal and regulatory steps.recording of assets acquired and liabilities assumedin 2015, we recorded provisional amounts for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which were adjusted in the first six months of 2016 (measurement period adjustments). certain estimated values are not yet finalized and are subject to change (see below). we will finalize the amounts recognized as we obtain the information necessary to complete the analyses. we will finalize the amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date. for the provisional amounts recognized for the hospira assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, see notes to condensed consolidated financial 57statements––note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions.measurement period adjustments in the first six months of 2016, we recorded measurement period adjustments that reduced, on a net basis, the preliminary estimate of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired by $4 million with a corresponding increase to goodwill. the measurement period adjustments did not result from intervening events subsequent to the acquisition date. the change in the provisional amounts did not have a material impact on our results of operations. for the measurement period adjustments to the hospira assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date that were recognized in the first six months of 2016, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions.provisional amounts subject to changethe following items are subject to change:•amounts for certain legal and environmental contingencies, pending receipt of certain information that could affect provisional amounts recorded. •amounts for intangibles and pp&e, pending finalization of valuation efforts.•amounts for income tax assets, receivables and liabilities, pending the filing of hospira pre-acquisition tax returns and the receipt of information including but not limited to that from taxing authorities, which may change certain estimates and assumptions used.additional recent transactions and eventsadditional recent transactions and events are described below:•acquisition of bamboo therapeutics, inc. (bamboo)––on august 1, 2016, we acquired all the remaining equity in bamboo, a privately held biotechnology company, focused on developing gene therapies for the treatment of patients with certain rare diseases, for $150 million, plus potential milestone payments to bamboo’s selling shareholders of up to $495 million contingent upon the progression of key assets through development, regulatory approval and commercialization. we previously purchased a minority stake in bamboo in the first quarter of 2016 for a payment of approximately $43 million. this acquisition provides us with several clinical and pre-clinical assets that complement our rare disease portfolio, an advanced recombinant adeno-associated virus vector design and production technology, and a fully functional phase i/ii gene therapy manufacturing facility. we do not expect this transaction to have any significant impact on our 2016 financial performance. following the acquisition, bamboo is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of pfizer.•acquisition of anacor pharmaceuticals, inc.––on june 24, 2016 (the acquisition date), we completed the acquisition of anacor. for additional information, see the “our business” section of this md&a. included within anacor’s pipeline is crisaborole, which is currently under review by the fda for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis in children and adults, commonly referred to as a type of eczema. the pdufa goal timing for the completion of the fda’s review of the crisaborole nda is early 2017. anacor also holds the rights to kerydin, a topical treatment for onychomycosis (toenail fungus) that is distributed and commercialized by sandoz in the u.s.•research and development arrangement with novaquest co-investment fund ii, l.p.––in may 2016, our agreement with novaquest became effective, under which novaquest will fund up to $250 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s bococizumab compound and pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. following potential regulatory approval, novaquest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to $195 million in total based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on bococizumab net sales over approximately nine years. novaquest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 40% of the development costs and will be received over five quarters during 2016 and 2017. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to novaquest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the second quarter and first six months of 2016 totaled $69.3 million. fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the bococizumab product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•research and development arrangement with novaquest co-investment fund v, l.p.––in april 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with novaquest under which novaquest will fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s rivipansel compound and pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. following potential regulatory approval, novaquest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total based on achievement of first 58commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. novaquest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately twelve quarters from 2016 to 2019. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to novaquest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the second quarter and first six months of 2016 totaled $15.0 million. fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•terminated agreement to combine with allergan plc––on april 6, 2016, we announced that the merger agreement between pfizer and allergan entered into on november 22, 2015 was terminated by mutual agreement of the companies. for additional information, see the “our business” section of this md&a. •research and development arrangement with rpi finance trust––in january 2016, pfizer entered into an agreement with rpi, a subsidiary of royalty pharma, under which rpi will fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain phase iii clinical trials of pfizer’s ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the indication). if successful and upon approval of ibrance in the u.s. or certain major markets in the eu for the indication based on the applicable clinical trials, rpi will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain ibrance sales over approximately seven years. rpi’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials through 2021. as there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to rpi, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of research and development expenses as incurred. the reduction to research and development expenses for the second quarter of 2016 totaled $12.9 million and for the first six months of 2016 totaled $21.7 million. fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as cost of sales when incurred.•minority interest in am-pharma b.v.––in april 2015, we acquired a minority equity interest in am-pharma, a privately-held dutch biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of recap for inflammatory diseases, and secured an exclusive option to acquire the remaining equity in the company. the option becomes exercisable upon delivery of the clinical trial report after completion of a phase ii trial of recap in the treatment of acute kidney injury related to sepsis, which is expected to read out in 2017. under the terms of the agreement, we paid $87.5 million for both the exclusive option and the minority equity interest, which was recorded as a cost-method investment in long-term investments, and we may make additional payments of up to $512.5 million upon exercise of the option and potential launch of any product that may result from this investment.•collaboration with opko health, inc.––we entered into a collaborative agreement with opko, which closed in january 2015, to develop and commercialize opko’s long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of ghd in adults and children, as well as for the treatment of growth failure in children born sga who fail to show catch-up growth by two years of age. hgh-ctp has the potential to reduce the required dosing frequency of human growth hormone to a single weekly injection from the current standard of one injection per day. we have received the exclusive license to commercialize hgh-ctp worldwide. opko will lead the clinical activities and will be responsible for funding the development programs for the key indications, which include adult and pediatric ghd and pediatric sga. we will be responsible for all development costs for additional indications, all postmarketing studies, manufacturing and commercialization activities for all indications, and we will lead the manufacturing activities related to product development. in february 2015, we made an upfront payment of $295 million to opko, which was recorded in research and development expenses, and opko is eligible to receive up to an additional $275 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones. opko is also eligible to receive royalty payments associated with the commercialization of hgh-ctp for adult ghd, which is subject to regulatory approval. upon the launch of hgh-ctp for pediatric ghd, which is subject to regulatory approval, the royalties will transition to tiered gross profit sharing for both hgh-ctp and our product, genotropin.•acquisition of marketed vaccines business of baxter international inc.––on december 1, 2014 (which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2015 for our international operations), we acquired baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines for a final purchase price of $648 million. the portfolio that was acquired consists of neisvac-c and fsme-immun/ticovac. neisvac-c is a vaccine that helps protect against meningitis caused by group c meningococcal meningitis and fsme-immun/ticovac is a vaccine that helps protect against tick-borne encephalitis.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 29, 2016, the filing date of our 2015 form 10-k, see the “our business development initiatives” section of our 2015 financial report.59our financial guidance for 2016on august 2, 2016, we reaffirmed our 2016 financial guidance components set forth below(a), (b):revenues$51.0 to $53.0 billionadjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues21.0% to 22.0%adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$13.7 to $14.7 billionadjusted research and development expenses$7.4 to $7.8 billionadjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately ($500 million) of incomeeffective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 24.0%adjusted diluted eps$2.38 to $2.48(a) the 2016 financial guidance reflects the following:•pfizer does not provide guidance for gaap reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-gaap financial measures to the most directly comparable gaap reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. these items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on gaap reported results for the guidance period. •does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of july 3, 2016, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions.•exchange rates assumed are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through the second quarter of 2016 and the mid-july 2016 exchange rates for the remainder of the year.•guidance for 2016 revenues reflects the anticipated negative impact of $2.3 billion due to recent and expected generic competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. •guidance for 2016 revenues also reflects the anticipated negative impact of $1.4 billion as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2015, including $0.8 billion due to the estimated significant negative currency impact related to venezuela. the anticipated negative impact on adjusted diluted eps resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates compared to foreign exchange rates from 2015 is approximately $0.10, including $0.07 due to the estimated significant negative currency impact related to venezuela.•guidance for adjusted diluted eps assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.2 billion shares.(b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a.for additional information about our actual and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our cost-reduction initiatives announced in 2014, the hospira acquisition, and our global commercial structure, which was established in 2014, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our 2016 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties—as described in the “our operating environment”, “the global economic environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; the “our operating environment”, “the global economic environment” and “our strategy” sections of our 2015 financial report; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors” of our 2015 10-k.significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptionsfor a description of our significant accounting policies, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies in our 2015 form 10-k. of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) acquisitions (note 1d); (ii) fair value (note 1e); (iii) revenues (note 1g); (iv) asset impairments (note 1k); (v) income tax contingencies (note 1o); (vi) pension and postretirement benefit plans (note 1p); and legal and environmental contingencies (note 1q). 60for a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements, see the “significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions” section of our 2015 financial report. see also notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions in our 2015 form 10-k.for a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.benefit planseffective january 1, 2016, the company changed the approach used to measure service and interest costs for u.s. and certain international pension and other postretirement benefits. for fiscal 2015, the company measured service and interest costs utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the bond model or yield curve used to measure the respective plan obligations. for 2016, we elected to measure service and interest costs by applying the spot rates along the yield curve for certain international plans, or a yield curve implied from our specific detailed bond model for u.s. plans, to the plans' liability cash flows. the company believes the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by aligning the timing of the plans’ liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rates on the yield curve. this change does not affect the measurement of our plan obligations. we have accounted for this change as a change in accounting estimate and, accordingly, have accounted for it on a prospective basis. the expected reduction in expense for 2016 associated with this change in estimate is $191 million, including $42 million from international plans, which is expected to be recognized evenly over each quarter of the year.61analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomerevenues and product developmentsrevenues––overviewthe following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geographic area:  three months ended  worldwide u.s. international worldwide u.s. international(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $7,105 $6,630 $3,950 $3,459 $3,156 $3,170 7 14 —eh 6,042 5,223 2,385 1,535 3,656 3,688 16 55 (1)total revenues $13,147 $11,853 $6,335 $4,994 $6,812 $6,859 11 27 (1)   six months ended  worldwide u.s. international worldwide u.s. international(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change in revenuesoperating segments(a):                  ih $14,139 $12,368 $8,064 $6,431 $6,075 $5,937 14 25 2eh 12,013 10,348 4,897 2,996 7,116 7,352 16 63 (3)total revenues $26,152 $22,717 $12,960 $9,428 $13,192 $13,289 15 37 (1)(a) ih = the innovative health segment; and eh = the essential health segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.revenues––second quarter 2016 revenues in the second quarter of 2016 were $13.1 billion, an increase of 11% compared to the same period in 2015, which reflects an operational increase of $1.6 billion, or 13%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $302 million, or 3%. the operational increase was primarily the result of:•inclusion of revenues from legacy hospira operations of $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2016; and•the continued strong performance of several key products in developed markets, including ibrance, lyrica (ih) and xeljanz, all primarily in the u.s., as well as eliquis (collectively, up approximately $780 million in the second quarter of 2016),partially offset by:•the prevnar/prevenar 13 franchise, primarily driven by the expected decline in revenues for prevnar 13 for adults in the u.s. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year quarter. international revenues for the pediatric indication for prevenar 13 also decreased, primarily in emerging markets, reflecting timing of purchases from gavi, the vaccine alliance, and certain other markets, compared to the prior-year quarter (down approximately $230 million in the second quarter of 2016); •the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for zyvox, primarily in the u.s. and certain developed europe markets, and lyrica (eh), in certain developed europe markets (collectively, down approximately $210 million in the second quarter of 2016); and•the expiration at the end of 2015 of the collaboration agreement to co-promote rebif in the u.s. (down approximately $90 million in the second quarter of 2016).revenues––first six months 2016 revenues in the first six months of 2016, were $26.2 billion, an increase of 15% compared to the same period in 2015, which reflects an operational increase of $4.5 billion, or 20%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.0 billion, or 5%. compared to the first six months of 2015, revenues in the first six months of 2016 were favorably impacted by approximately $800 million as a result of the first six months of 2016 having four additional selling days in the u.s. and international markets. this imbalance in selling days will be offset in the fourth quarter of 2016 resulting in essentially the same 62number of selling days in 2016 as 2015. the operational increase, which includes the impact of the additional selling days in the first six months of 2016, was primarily the result of: •inclusion of revenues from legacy hospira operations of $2.3 billion in the first six months of 2016;•the continued strong performance of several key products in developed markets, including ibrance, lyrica (ih), xeljanz, chantix/champix and consumer healthcare, all primarily in the u.s., as well as eliquis (collectively, up approximately $1.9 billion in the first six months of 2016); and•a 6% operational increase in revenues in emerging markets (excluding the contribution from legacy hospira operations), reflecting continued strong performance primarily from enbrel and eliquis and continued strong volume growth from certain other products (collectively, up approximately $320 million in the first six months of 2016), partially offset by:•the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for zyvox, primarily in the u.s. and certain developed europe markets, and lyrica (eh) in certain developed europe markets (collectively, down approximately $440 million in the first six months of 2016); and•the expiration at the end of 2015 of the collaboration agreement to co-promote rebif in the u.s. (down approximately $140 million in the first six months of 2016).geographically, •in the u.s., revenues increased $1.3 billion, or 27%, in the second quarter of 2016, and increased $3.5 billion, or 37%, in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, reflecting, among other things:◦the inclusion of legacy hospira u.s. operations of approximately $850 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $1.8 billion in the first six months of 2016; and◦the continued strong performance of several key products including ibrance, lyrica (ih), eliquis, xeljanz and chantix (collectively, up approximately $720 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $1.6 billion in the first six months of 2016),partially offset by: ◦the expected decline in revenues for prevnar 13 primarily driven by prevnar 13 for adults in the u.s. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year quarter (down approximately $110 million in the second quarter of 2016); ◦the expiration at the end of 2015 of the collaboration agreement to co-promote rebif in the u.s. (down approximately $90 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $140 million in the first six months of 2016); and◦the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for zyvox (down approximately $70 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $170 million in the first six months of 2016).•in our international markets, revenues decreased $47 million, or 1%, in the second quarter of 2016, and decreased $98 million, or 1%, in the first six months of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015. foreign exchange unfavorably impacted international revenues by approximately $300 million, or 4%, in the second quarter of 2016 and unfavorably impacted international revenues by approximately $1.0 billion, or 8% in the first six months of 2016. operationally, revenues increased $253 million, or 4%, in the second quarter of 2016 and increased $931 million, or 7% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, reflecting, among other things:◦the inclusion of legacy hospira international operations of approximately $290 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $560 million in the first six months of 2016;◦the continued strong performance of eliquis (up approximately $90 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $180 million in the first six months of 2016); and◦the continued strong volume growth from certain other products in emerging markets, excluding the contributions from legacy hospira and eliquis and lower revenues from prevenar 13 pediatric (collectively, up approximately $130 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $360 million in the first six months of 2016),63partially offset by: ◦lower revenues in developed markets for lyrica (eh) and zyvox as a result of the loss of exclusivity (collectively, down approximately $150 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $280 million in the first six months of 2016); and◦lower revenues for prevenar 13 primarily for the pediatric indication mostly in emerging markets, reflecting timing of purchases from gavi, the vaccine alliance, and certain other markets, compared to the prior-year period (down approximately $120 million for the second quarter of 2016 and $60 million in the first six months of 2016). during the second quarter of 2016, international revenues represented 52% of total revenues, compared to 58% in the second quarter of 2015. excluding foreign exchange, international revenues in the second quarter of 2016 represented 53% of total revenues. during the first six months of 2016, international revenues represented 50% of total revenues compared to 58% in the first six months of 2015. excluding foreign exchange, international revenues in the first six months of 2016 represented 52% of total revenues. the decline in the percentage of international revenues is primarily due to the inclusion of hospira.for additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.revenue deductionsour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent rebates, chargebacks and sales allowances to government agencies, wholesalers/distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our pharmaceutical products. those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period, and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends.the following table provides information about deductions from revenues:  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015medicare rebates(a) $216 $228 $492 $449medicaid and related state program rebates(a) 364 291735 571performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 636 5811,225 1,046chargebacks(c) 1,414 1,2082,853 2,251sales allowances(d) 1,115 9902,091 1,894sales returns and cash discounts 324 366 688 627total(e) $4,067 $3,665 $8,083 $6,839(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with managed care customers within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pbms, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. outside the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to u.s. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the u.s., discounts and distribution fees.(e) for the three months ended july 3, 2016, associated with the following segments: ih ($1.6 billion) and eh ($2.4 billion). for the three months ended june 28, 2015, associated with the following segments: ih ($1.4 billion); and eh ($2.3 billion). for the six months ended july 3, 2016, associated with the following segments: ih ($3.3 billion) and eh ($4.8 billion). for the six months ended june 28, 2015, associated with the following segments: ih ($2.6 billion) and eh ($4.2 billion).total deductions from revenues for the second quarter of 2016 increased 11% compared to the second quarter of 2015, and total deductions from revenues for the first six months of 2016 increased 18% compared to the first six months of 2015, primarily as a result of:•an increase in chargebacks from eh products, primarily due to the addition in 2016 of hospira sterile injectables, and from certain ih products; 64•an increase in performance-based contract rebates primarily due to sales to managed care customers in the u.s. and, for the first six months of 2016, higher rebates in certain developed europe markets due to competitive pressures post loss of exclusivity for certain products; and•an increase in medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of updated estimates of sales related to these programs.our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $4.1 billion as of july 3, 2016, of which approximately $2.7 billion is included in other current liabilities, $332 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.1 billion is included against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $3.9 billion as of december 31, 2015, of which approximately $2.6 billion is included in other current liabilities, $272 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.1 billion is included against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. 65revenues—major productsthe following table provides revenue information for several of our major products:  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 % change(a) july 3, 2016 % change(a)product primary indications or class total oper.total oper.pfizer innovative health (ih)(b) $7,105 7 9 $14,139 14 18internal medicine $2,190 16 16 $4,314 22 23lyrica ih(c) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury 1,048 15 16 2,059 17 19viagra ih(d) erectile dysfunction 300 (10) (10) 600 (4) (3)chantix/champix an aid to smoking cessation treatment 213 23 24 434 31 33toviaz overactive bladder 67 (5) (6) 131 (2) (1)bmp2 development of bone and cartilage 61 (19) (19) 112 (1) (1)alliance revenues(e) various 371 28 25 722 45 45all other internal medicine various 130 * * 257 * *vaccines $1,365 (14) (13) $2,935 1 3prevnar/prevenar 13 vaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease 1,258 (16) (15) 2,766 (1) —fsme/immun-ticovac tick-borne encephalitis vaccine 42 (24) (26) 69 6 6all other vaccines various 65 * * 100 * *oncology $1,101 54 56 $2,102 69 72ibrance advanced breast cancer 514 * * 942 * *sutent advanced and/or metastatic rcc, refractory gist and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor 285 (3) — 563 5 10xalkori alk-positive nsclc and ros1-positive nsclc 137 15 15 275 20 22inlyta advanced rcc 108 (2) (3) 209 1 3all other oncology various 57 16 15 112 25 26inflammation & immunology (i&i) $999 3 7 $1,947 6 14enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada) rheumatoid, juvenile rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis 766 (7) (3) 1,500 (5) 3xeljanz rheumatoid arthritis 217 70 72 414 85 87all other i&i various 16 1 (7) 33 39 33rare disease $614 (3) (2) $1,182 (1) 3benefix hemophilia 183 (5) (5) 367 — 3genotropin replacement of human growth hormone 152 (9) (6) 277 (9) (5)refacto af/xyntha hemophilia 139 (2) (1) 268 2 6somavert acromegaly 59 8 8 114 9 12rapamune prevention of organ rejection in kidney transplantation 47 (11) (4) 93 (12) (4)all other rare disease various 33 27 23 63 18 19consumer healthcare $837 — 5 $1,659 1 7pfizer essential health (eh)(f) $6,042 16 19 $12,013 16 22legacy established products (lep)(g) $2,864 (2) 2 $5,664 (2) 5lipitor reduction of ldl cholesterol 461 (9) (2) 872 (8) —premarin family symptoms of menopause 251 (3) (2) 507 3 4norvasc hypertension 240 (4) (2) 476 (5) (1)epipen epinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions 93 9 10 190 18 19xalatan/xalacom glaucoma and ocular hypertension 94 (5) (4) 182 (9) (5)relpax treats the symptoms of migraine headache 87 6 5 165 2 2zoloft depression and certain anxiety disorders 77 (17) (14) 156 (13) (5)zithromax/zmax(h) bacterial infections 67 10 12 147 5 10effexor depression and certain anxiety disorders 67 (9) (5) 137 (7) (1)tikosyn maintenance of normal sinus rhythm, conversion of atrial fibrillation/flutter 55 32 32 116 48 48xanax/xanax xr anxiety disorders 55 2 3 108 (1) 4cardura hypertension/benign prostatic hyperplasia 48 (11) (10) 94 (12) (7)neurontin seizures 47 (2) 5 91 (12) 1depo-provera contraceptive 34 (33) (31) 68 (23) (19)all other lep various 1,187 1 8 2,355 — 9sterile injectable pharmaceuticals (sip)(i) $1,497 99 * $3,021 * *medrol(h) adrenocortical steroid 115 16 21 228 23 29sulperazon antibiotic 105 31 37 201 13 18fragmin anticoagulant 82 (7) (4) 160 (1) 4tygacil antibiotic 59 (23) (17) 134 (11) (3)all other sip various 1,136 * * 2,297 * *66peri-loe products(j) $1,111 (21) (19) $2,201 (23) (18)lyrica eh(c) epilepsy, neuropathic pain and generalized anxiety disorder 214 (31) (31) 431 (34) (31)pristiq depression 194 10 11 372 10 13celebrex arthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain 183 (18) (16) 355 (17) (12)vfend fungal infections 162 — 2 319 (8) (3)zyvox bacterial infections 114 (56) (54) 240 (55) (50)viagra eh(d) erectile dysfunction 101 (11) (6) 197 (11) (4)revatio pulmonary arterial hypertension 74 14 13 140 10 12all other peri-loe products various 69 (26) (24) 146 (27) (22)infusion systems(k) various $295 * * $599 * *biosimilars(l) various $78 * * $145 * *pfizer centreone(m) $196 47 48 $384 57 60total lyrica(c) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury $1,261 3 4 $2,490 4 6total viagra(d) erectile dysfunction $401 (11) (9) $796 (6) (3)total alliance revenues various $376 21 19 $736 38 39(a) as compared to the three and six months ended june 28, 2015.(b) the ih business, previously known as the innovative products business, encompasses internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare disease and consumer healthcare.(c) lyrica revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia countries are included in lyrica eh. all other lyrica revenues are included in lyrica ih. total lyrica revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from lyrica ih and lyrica eh.(d) viagra revenues from the u.s. and canada are included in viagra ih. all other viagra revenues are included in viagra eh. total viagra revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from viagra ih and viagra eh.(e) includes eliquis (2016 and 2015) and rebif (2015 only).(f) the eh business, previously known as the established products business, encompasses legacy established products, sterile injectable pharmaceuticals, peri-loe products, infusion systems, biosimilars and pfizer centreone and includes all legacy hospira commercial operations. for additional information about changes impacting essential health, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information. (g) legacy established products include products that have lost patent protection (excluding sterile injectable pharmaceuticals and peri-loe products).(h) prior period revenues for medrol and zithromax/zmax may not agree to previously-disclosed revenues because revenues for those products are now split between the legacy established products and the sterile injectable pharmaceuticals categories. (i) sterile injectable pharmaceuticals include generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding peri-loe products).(j) peri-loe products include products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. these products primarily include lyrica in certain developed europe markets, pristiq globally, celebrex, zyvox and revatio in most developed markets, vfend and viagra in certain developed europe markets and japan, and inspra in the eu.(k) infusion systems include medication management systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as i.v. infusion products, including large volume i.v. solutions and their associated administration sets.(l) biosimilars include inflectra (biosimilar infliximab) in certain european markets, nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) in certain asian markets and retacrit (biosimilar epoetin zeta) in certain international markets.(m) pfizer centreone (previously known as pfizer centresource or pcs) includes (i) revenues from legacy pfizer's contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis; and (ii) revenues from legacy hospira’s one-2-one sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.*calculation not meaningful.revenues––selected product descriptionsall products have been impacted to some extent by the number of selling days in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015; the first six months of 2016 had four additional selling days in the u.s. and international markets.•prevnar/prevenar 13 (ih) is our pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease. overall, worldwide revenues for prevnar/prevenar 13 decreased 15% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and were relatively flat operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in the second quarter, and 2% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.in the u.s., revenues for prevnar 13 decreased 13% in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to the expected decline in revenues for prevenar 13 for adults in the u.s. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year quarter. revenues in the u.s. increased 4% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily driven by the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication and price increases in both the public and private markets partially offset by the aforementioned decline of the “catch up” opportunity compared to the same period in 2015. we believe the “catch-up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults aged 65 and older who have not been previously vaccinated with prevnar 13) in adults in the u.s. will continue to be large given current demographics and aging trends. however, the remaining population of adults aged 65 years and older will require additional effort to capture. as a result, the opportunity will diminish over time as this “catch-up” opportunity becomes fully realized.internationally, revenues for prevenar 13 decreased 19% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 5% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, driven by timing of orders from gavi, the vaccine alliance, as well as in certain emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and 5% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. in 2014, the acip voted to recommend prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. 67these acip recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the cdc and u.s. department of health and human services, and were published in the morbidity and mortality weekly report in september 2014 by the cdc. as with other vaccines, the cdc regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the cdc announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018. currently, we are working with a number of u.s. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends.in july 2016, the fda approved an expanded age indication to include adults 18 through 49 years of age, in addition to the already approved indications for adults 50 years and older, for active immunization for the prevention of pneumonia and invasive disease caused by 13 streptococcus pneumoniae (s. pneumoniae) serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6a, 6b, 7f, 9v, 14, 18c, 19a, 19f, and 23f), and for children 6 weeks through 17 years of age (prior to the 18th birthday) for the prevention of invasive disease caused by the 13 streptococcus pneumoniae strains in the vaccine. prevenar 13 is now approved in the u.s., the eu and 44 other countries for use in adults 18 to 49 years of age. prevnar 13 is the only pneumococcal vaccine approved across the entire lifespan.in april 2016, the ema approved a new 4-dose, mdv presentation for prevenar 13. in addition, in july 2016, we received the world health organization prequalification approval for the prevenar 13 mdv presentation. this mdv presentation is expected to be introduced under the advance market commitment program in early 2017, for shipment to countries covered by gavi, the vaccine alliance. this new presentation will help to significantly reduce storage requirements and shipping costs in gavi eligible countries.•lyrica (eh (revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia)/ih (revenues from all other geographies)) is indicated in the u.s. for three neuropathic pain conditions, fibromyalgia and adjunctive therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures. in certain markets outside the u.s., indications include neuropathic pain (peripheral and central), fibromyalgia, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and generalized anxiety disorder. worldwide revenues for lyrica increased 4% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 6% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in the second quarter of 2016 and 2% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.in the u.s., revenues increased 21% in the second quarter of 2016, and 23% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, driven by volume growth and price increases.internationally, lyrica revenues decreased 16% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 15% operationally in the first six months of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015, due to losses of exclusivity in developed europe markets, partially offset by operational growth in certain markets, primarily in japan. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 1% in the second quarter of 2016, and 4% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.lyrica revenues in our ih segment increased 16% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 19% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, and in our eh segment, revenues from lyrica decreased 31% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 31% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. •enbrel (ih, outside the u.s. and canada), indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis, recorded a 3% operational decrease in worldwide revenues, excluding the u.s. and canada, in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to the impact of the entrance of the first etanercept biosimilar as well as mandated price reductions across certain markets in europe. worldwide revenues, excluding the u.s. and canada, increased 3% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015. results for the first six months of 2016 were favorably impacted by stronger demand and price increases in emerging markets, specifically in latin america. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 4% in the second quarter of 2016, and 8% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•ibrance (ih) has been approved and launched in the u.s., and certain international markets as a treatment for a certain form of advanced breast cancer. ibrance recorded worldwide revenues of $514 million in the second quarter of 2016, and $942 million in the first six months of 2016, nearly all of which were recorded in the u.s. •lipitor (eh) is indicated for the treatment of elevated ldl-cholesterol levels in the blood. lipitor faces generic competition in all major developed markets. branded lipitor recorded worldwide revenues of $461 million, or a 2% operational decrease in the second quarter of 2016, and $872 million in the first six months of 2016, or relatively flat operationally, compared to the same periods in 2015. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 7% in the second quarter of 2016, and 8% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.in the u.s., revenues increased 11% in the second quarter of 2016 and 8% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, due to favorable pricing and lower sales allowances. in our international markets, revenues decreased 3% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015 driven by lower volume in certain emerging markets, primarily in the middle east, and in developed international markets, and pricing pressures in china, partially offset by strong volume growth in china. revenues in international markets were relatively flat operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to volume growth 68in china offset by pricing pressures in international markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 8% in the second quarter of 2016, and 9% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•viagra (ih (u.s. and canada revenues)/eh (all other revenues excluding u.s. and canada)) is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. viagra worldwide revenues decreased 9% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 3% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to new access constraints and increased rebates. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in the second quarter of 2016, and 2% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. revenues in the u.s. decreased 10% in the second quarter of 2016, and 3% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily reflecting new access constraints, lower patient demand and higher rebates, partially offset by price increases, wholesaler buying patterns and increased pill quantity per prescription. international revenues decreased 5% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and decreased 4% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily from lower volumes in china and in developed international markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 5% in the second quarter of 2016, and 7% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. viagra revenues in our ih segment decreased 10% operationally in the second quarter of 2016 and decreased 3% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, and in our eh segment, revenues from viagra decreased 6% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and decreased 4% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. •sutent (ih) is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including mrcc; gist after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate; and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. sutent worldwide revenues were relatively flat operationally in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to price increases in the u.s., offset by competitive pressures and cost containment measures. sutent worldwide revenues increased 10% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to price increases in the u.s., as well as strong demand primarily in emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and 5% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•our premarin family of products (eh) helps women address moderate-to-severe menopausal symptoms. premarin worldwide revenues decreased 2% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and increased 4% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. revenues in the u.s. decreased 2% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015, primarily driven by prescription volume declines and lower market growth, partially offset by favorable pricing. revenues in the u.s. increased 5% in the first six months of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015, primarily driven by price increases, partially offset by prescription volume declines and lower market growth. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 1% in both the second quarter and the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•norvasc (eh) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. norvasc worldwide revenues decreased 2% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 1% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. results for the second quarter of 2016 were primarily impacted by generic erosion in japan and declines in certain emerging markets, primarily in the middle east, partially offset by strong demand in china. results for the first six months of 2016 were primarily impacted by generic erosion in japan, partially offset by strong demand in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and 4% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•chantix/champix (ih) is approved as an aid to smoking-cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age and older in multiple markets worldwide. worldwide revenues increased 24% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 33% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in the second quarter of 2016, and 2% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. in the u.s., chantix revenues increased 40% in the second quarter of 2016, and 51% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to increased demand, price increases and wholesaler buying patterns. internationally, champix revenues decreased 1% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to prescription market contraction due to electronic cigarette uptake in the u.k. and the timing of government purchases in turkey, partially offset by demand in south korea driven by reforms to the government sponsored smoking cessation subsidy program. internationally, champix revenues increased 5% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to growth in south korea (driven by reforms to the government sponsored smoking cessation subsidy program), spain and the netherlands. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 3% in the second quarter of 2016, and 6% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•xeljanz (ih) is approved for use as a second-line therapy for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate and is available in more than 45 markets including the u.s., japan, australia, canada, switzerland and brazil. xeljanz worldwide revenues increased 72% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 87% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. in the u.s., xeljanz revenues increased 63% in the second quarter of 2016, and 78% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists and growing awareness among patients as well as price increases. foreign exchange had a 2% unfavorable impact on revenues in both the second quarter and in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.69•pristiq (eh) is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder in the u.s. and in various other countries. pristiq has also been indicated for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause in certain international markets. worldwide revenues for pristiq increased 11% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and increased 13% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to growth in the u.s. driven by favorable pricing and increased demand. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and 3% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•benefix and refacto af/xyntha (ih) are recombinant hemophilia products that assist patients with their lifelong hemophilia bleeding disorders. benefix worldwide revenues decreased 5% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily as a result of erosion of market share in the u.s. due to the launch of new extended half-life treatment options. benefix worldwide revenues increased 3% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily as a result of higher product demand in europe. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 1% in the second quarter of 2016 and 3% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. refacto af/xyntha recorded a 1% operational decrease in worldwide revenues in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, due to launch of new extended half-life treatment options and changes in purchasing patterns in the u.s. refacto af/xyntha recorded a 6% operational increase in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, largely due to product demand across europe and certain other international markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 1% in the second quarter of 2016, and 4% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. •celebrex (eh) is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis worldwide and for the management of acute pain in adults in the u.s., japan and certain other markets. celebrex recorded a 16% operational decrease in worldwide revenues in the second quarter of 2016, and a 12% operational decrease in worldwide revenues in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily driven by the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition in the u.s. and most developed international markets, partially offset by growth in china and other emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and 5% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.internationally, celebrex revenues decreased 5% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 9% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, driven by the loss of exclusivity and launch of multi-source generic competition in most developed markets partially offset by volume growth in china and other emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and 6% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. •xalkori (ih) is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic nsclc that is alk-positive or ros1-positive. xalkori worldwide revenues increased 15% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 22% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, as a result of a steady increase in diagnostic rates for the alk gene mutation across key markets, which has led to more patients being treated, and price increase in the u.s. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 3% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015.•zyvox (eh) is used to treat serious gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus-aureus. zyvox worldwide revenues decreased 54% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 50% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, due to generic competition in the u.s. and developed international markets and corresponding pricing pressures, as well as lower volumes in emerging markets, primarily china and latin america. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and 4% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•inlyta (ih) is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced rcc after failure of a prior systemic treatment. worldwide revenues decreased 3% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to increased competition due to new entrants in the second line market primarily in the u.s., offsetting the growth in other markets, particularly in japan and argentina as well as in china following the launch in the third quarter of 2015. worldwide revenues increased 3% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to increased demand across key international markets with greater access and reimbursement, particularly in europe and emerging markets, mainly in argentina as well as in china following the launch in the third quarter of 2015, partially offset by a decrease in the u.s. due to increased competition due to new entrants in the second line market. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 2% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015.•alliance revenues (ih/eh) increased 19% operationally in the second quarter of 2016, and 39% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, mainly due to:◦an increase in eliquis alliance revenues due to increased market share,70partially offset by:◦the expiration at the end of 2015 of the collaboration agreement to co-promote rebif in the u.s., which resulted in a decrease of approximately $90 million in the second quarter of 2016, and approximately $140 million in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.foreign exchange had a favorable impact on alliance revenues of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, and an unfavorable impact on alliance revenues of 1% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015.•eliquis (apixaban) (ih) is being jointly developed and commercialized by pfizer and bms. the two companies share commercialization expenses and profit/losses equally on a global basis. in april 2015, we signed an agreement with bms to transfer full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets to us, beginning in the third quarter of 2015. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the noac market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. eliquis (apixaban) is approved for multiple indications in major markets around the world:◦to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation;◦for the treatment of dvt and pe, and for the reduction in the risk of recurrent dvt and pe following initial therapy; and◦for the prophylaxis of dvt, which may lead to pe, in patients who have undergone hip or knee replacement surgery. the noac class penetration continues to expand across key markets. eliquis has become the most prescribed oral anticoagulant in new-to-brand prescriptions among cardiologists in the u.s., japan, and several other key markets. see the “our operating environment—intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2015 financial report for information regarding the expiration of various contract rights relating to enbrel and rebif.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.product developments—biopharmaceuticalwe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules—immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars, which are being developed by our newly formed eh r&d organization. for additional information about the new eh r&d organization, see the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook—our strategy—commercial operations” section of this md&a. a comprehensive update of pfizer’s development pipeline was published on august 2, 2016 and is available at www.pfizer.com/pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for candidates from phase 2 through registration.the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedxalkori (crizotinib)treatment of patients with ros1-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancermarch 2016xeljanz (tofacitinib)extended-release 11mg tablets for the once-daily treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in patients who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexatefebruary 2016ibrance (palbociclib)treatment of hr+, her2- advanced or metastatic breast cancer in combination with fulvestrant in women with disease progression following endocrine therapyfebruary 201671pending u.s. ndas and supplemental filingsproductproposed indicationdate filed*crisaborole (pf-06930164)a non-steroidal topical anti-inflammatory pde-4 inhibitor for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitismarch 2016alo-02 (oxycodone hci/ naltrexone/hci)(a)a mu-type opioid receptor agonist for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequatefebruary 2015retacrit(b)a potential biosimilar to epogen® and procrit® (epotein alfa)february 2015tafamidis meglumine(c)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathyfebruary 2012*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) in june 2016, the fda’s anesthetic and analgesic drug products advisory committee and drug safety and risk management advisory committee voted in favor of approval of alo-02 for “management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative options are inadequate.” the committees recommended the inclusion of abuse-deterrent labeling for intranasal and intravenous routes of abuse, but voted against inclusion of abuse-deterrent labeling for the oral route. the fda will take the committees’ recommendations into consideration before taking action on the alo-02 nda.(b) epogen® is a registered u.s. trademark of amgen inc.; procrit® is a registered u.s. trademark of johnson & johnson. in october 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our biologics license application for retacrit, our proposed biosimilar to epoetin alfa, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. we are working diligently to address the content of the letter. (c) in may 2012, the fda’s peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. pfizer initiated study b3461028 in december 2013, a global phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomypathy, which includes transthyretin familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (ttr-fac) and wild-type cardiomyopathy (wt-cm). we continue to work with the fda to identify next steps.in july 2016, we withdrew all pending regulatory applications of tofacitinib seeking approval for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis, including the supplemental new drug application in the u.s. following the october 2015 complete response letter from the fda. the withdrawal of these filings will allow us more time to determine the path forward for tofacitinib in this indication.regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*inotuzumab ozogamicinapplication filed in the eu for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia—may 2016trumenbaapplication filed in the eu for a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b in individuals 10 through 25 years of age—may 2016xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in the eu for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate—march 2016xalkori (crizotinib)(a)application filed in the eu for the treatment of ros1-positive non-small cell lung cancer—february 2016eliquis (apixaban)(b)approval in japan for the treatment and prevention of recurrence of venous thromboembolism (dvt and pe)december 2015—xalkori (crizotinib)approval in the eu for first line treatment of alk-positive non-small cell lung cancernovember 2015—effexor sr (venlafaxine hcl)approval in japan for treatment of depression/depressed stateseptember 2015—ibrance (palbociclib)application filed in the eu for palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of hr+, her2- advanced or metastatic breast cancer, as well as for the treatment of recurrent advanced breast cancer —august 2015*for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the ema validated our submissions.(a) in july 2016, the ema’s committee for medicinal products for human use issued an opinion recommending that xalkori be granted approval for the treatment of adults with ros1-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer.(b) this indication for eliquis (apixaban) was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms.72late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductproposed indicationbosulif (bosutinib)first-line treatment for patients with chronic phase philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with avillion groupinlyta (axitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupibrance (palbociclib)treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the german breast groupibrance (palbociclib)treatment of hr+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llc, and the austrian breast colorectal cancer study grouplyrica (pregabalin)cr (once-a-day) dosingsutent (sunitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinomaxeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of ulcerative colitisxeljanz (tofacitinib)treatment of psoriatic arthritisvyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathynew drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateproposed indicationavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1, in combination with inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patients with urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanyavelumab (pf-06834635)(msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the third-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybococizumaba monoclonal antibody that inhibits pcsk9 for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and prevention of cardiovascular eventsdacomitiniba pan-her tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with egfr activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupertugliflozinan oral sglt2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merck & co., inc.inotuzumab ozogamicinan antibody drug conjugate, consisting of an anti-cd22 monotherapy antibody linked to a cytotoxic agent, calicheamycin, for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ex-eu)pf-06836922a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with opko health, inc.pf-06438179(a)a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)pf-05280014(b)a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)pf-05280586(c)a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)pf-06439535(d)a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)pf-06410293(e)a potential biosimilar to humira® (adalimumab)rivipansel (gmi-1070)a pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from glycomimetics inc.tanezumaban anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with lilly(a) remicade® is a registered trademark of janssen biotech, inc. in february 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of pf-06438179, a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the eea to sandoz, which was a condition to the european commission’s approval of the hospira transaction. we retain commercialization and manufacturing rights to pf-06438179 in all countries outside of the eea.(b) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.73(c) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen ma inc.(d) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(e) humira® is a registered trademark of abbvie biotechnology ltd.inflectra™in 2009, hospira entered into an agreement to develop and market certain biosimilar molecules with celltrion inc. and celltrion healthcare, co., ltd. (collectively, celltrion) including inflectra™ (infliximab) for patients with autoimmune diseases. in europe, inflectra has now launched in 36 markets. celltrion possesses the right to commercialize its infliximab product under the brand name remsima™ in the same european markets as hospira. we have exclusive commercialization rights from celltrion to its infliximab product in the u.s., canada and certain other territories. in april 2016, the fda approved inflectra (infliximab-dyyb) across all eligible indications of the reference product, remicade® (infliximab). in december 2014, hospira launched inflectra in canada. inflectra has also been approved in certain markets, where we will market it under the brand name remsima™.additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.costs and expensescost of sales  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changecost of sales $3,174 $2,180 46 $6,026 $4,018 50as a percentage of revenues 24.1% 18.4%   23.0% 17.7%  cost of sales increased 46% in the second quarter of 2016 and 50% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to:•an increase in sales volumes including legacy hospira operations;•the sale of legacy hospira inventory measured at fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over the turn of the related inventory; and •the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.the increase in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the second quarter of 2016 and the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, was primarily due to:•an unfavorable change in product mix due to (i) the inclusion of legacy hospira operations with products that carry a higher cost, as well as the impact of acquired hospira inventory which is measured at fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over the turn of the related inventory; and (ii) the impact of losses of exclusivity on products which formerly had a higher gross margin; and•the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange,partially offset by:•a favorable change in product mix related to legacy pfizer products, including alliance revenues (which have no associated cost of sales), excluding losses of exclusivity.selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,471 $3,386 2 $6,856 $6,491 6as a percentage of revenues 26.4% 28.6%   26.2% 28.6%  si&a expenses increased 2% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to:•the inclusion of legacy hospira operations; and •increased investments to support certain recently launched products; 74partially offset by:•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2% in the second quarter of 2016; and•lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives.si&a expenses increased 6% in the first six months of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to:•an increase in the allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor;•the inclusion of legacy hospira operations; and•increased investments to support certain recently launched products and other in-line biopharmaceutical products, partially offset by:•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% in the first six months of 2016; and•lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives.research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changeresearch and development expenses $1,748 $1,734 1 $3,478 $3,620 (4)as a percentage of revenues 13.3% 14.6%   13.3% 15.9% r&d expenses increased 1% in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to:•the inclusion of legacy hospira operations and increased investment in legacy pfizer biosimilar development programs; and•increased costs associated with our avelumab alliance with merck kgaa,partially offset by:•development funding of $97 million under which we have an obligation to perform contractual services related to certain clinical trials of bococizumab, ibrance and rivipansel (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: research and development and collaborative arrangements).r&d expenses decreased 4% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to:•the non-recurrence of the $295 million upfront payment to opko in the first quarter of 2015 associated with a worldwide development and commercialization agreement; and•development funding of $106 million under which we have an obligation to perform contractual services related to certain clinical trials of bococizumab, ibrance and rivipansel (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2b. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: research and development and collaborative arrangements),partially offset by:•the inclusion of legacy hospira operations and increased investment in legacy pfizer biosimilar development programs; •increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our avelumab alliance with merck kgaa; and•increased investments in certain late-stage pipeline programs, primarily bococizumab and tanezumab.description of research and development operationsinnovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. our r&d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations, and in 2016, we announced changes to our research and development operations that we believe will create a stronger and more efficient research and development engine across our ih and eh businesses. •research units within our wrd organization continue to be generally responsible for research assets for our ih business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our research units are organized in a variety of ways (by therapeutic area or combinations of therapeutic areas, by discipline, by location, etc.) to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources within a research unit between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. •we created an r&d organization within the eh business, which supports the large base of eh products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. 75•we formed the gpd organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects. •our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&d spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicinal chemistry, regulatory and drug safety, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. as a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs.we manage r&d operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. specifically, a single committee with representation from the r&d groups and the ih commercial organization is accountable for aligning resources among all of our wrd, gpd and ih r&d projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the innovative r&d portfolio. we believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. our eh r&d organization manages its resources separately from the wrd and gpd organizations.generally, we do not disaggregate total r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our r&d operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about r&d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending.for additional information by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.amortization of intangible assets  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changeamortization of intangible assets $961 $872 10 $1,966 $1,811 9as a percentage of revenues 7.3% 7.4%   7.5% 8.0%  amortization of intangible assets increased 10% in the second quarter of 2016 and 9% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to purchase accounting charges of approximately $128 million pre-tax in the second quarter of 2016 and $257 million pre-tax for the first six months of 2016 related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired from hospira, partially offset by assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives. see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 %change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changerestructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs $316 $86 * $457 $146 *total additional depreciation—asset restructuring 53 28 88 104 47 *total implementation costs 64 45 41 124 93 33costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(a) $433 $159 * $685 $286 *(a) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses and/or selling, informational and administrative expenses, as appropriate.*calculation not meaningful.included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs are (i) restructuring charges of $140 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $170 million for the first six months of 2016 for employee termination costs, exit costs and asset impairments, which are largely associated with cost-reduction and productivity initiatives not associated with acquisitions; (ii) transaction costs, such as banking, legal, accounting and other similar services, of $36 million in the second quarter of 2016, most of which are directly related to our acquisition of anacor in june 2016, and $60 million for the first six months of 2016, which include costs related to the anacor acquisition, as well costs associated with our terminated transaction with allergan; 76and (iii) integration costs, representing external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes, of $139 million, in the second quarter of 2016 and $227 million for the first six months of 2016, primarily related to our acquisition of hospira and the terminated transaction with allergan. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.in connection with our acquisition of hospira, we are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. we expect to achieve $1 billion of annual cost savings by 2018 in connection with the hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million. the one-time costs to generate the savings are expected to be approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million in 2015 associated with the return of acquired in-process research and development rights), incurred for up to a three-year period post-acquisition.in early 2014, we announced that we would be incurring costs in 2014-2016 related to new programs: our new global commercial structure reorganization and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. we also have an ongoing manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiative underway. for information about these programs and expected total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. the expected ongoing annual cost savings associated with the above-mentioned programs (but not including expected cost savings associated with the hospira acquisition), in the aggregate, are estimated to be approximately $2.4 billion by the end of 2016. the expected costs and cost savings in 2016 associated with these activities, as well as the hospira acquisition, are reflected in our financial guidance for 2016. see also the “our financial guidance for 2016” section of this md&a.in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.other (income)/deductions—net  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changeother (income)/deductions––net $1,068 $55 * $1,398 $9 **calculation not meaningful.for information about the components of other (income)/deductions—net, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.provision for taxes on income  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % change july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changeprovision for taxes on income $375 $905 (59) $910 $1,610 (43)effective tax rate on continuing operations 15.6% 25.6%   15.2% 24.3%  for information about our effective tax rate and the events and circumstances contributing to the changes between periods, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.77non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)general description of non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. because adjusted income is an important internal measurement for pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income, certain components of adjusted income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines, medical devices and consumer healthcare (otc) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. also, see the “adjusted income––general description of adjusted income measure” section of our 2015 financial report for additional information. similarly, we have defined the adjusted income components as cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of intangible assets and other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. we have defined adjusted diluted earnings per share as earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure, the adjusted income component measures and the adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for u.s. gaap net income, u.s. gaap net income components or u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share. the following are examples of how the adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using adjusted income and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. see the “adjusted income––general description of adjusted income measure” section of our 2015 financial report for additional information.adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-gaap financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. because of their non-standardized definitions, adjusted income and its components (unlike u.s. gaap net income and its components) and adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike u.s. gaap diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. a limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a group of pharmaceutical industry peers (pre-2015) or a publicly traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans.see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the second quarter and first six months of 2016 and 2015 below.78purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with pharmacia corporation (acquired in 2003), wyeth (acquired in 2009), king pharmaceuticals, inc. (acquired in 2011), hospira (acquired in september 2015) and anacor (acquired in june 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique and vary with each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. for example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases may be the result of previously inestimable and unresolved matters at the date of acquisition. unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.79reconciliation of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  three months ended july 3, 2016in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $13,147 $— $— $— $— $13,147cost of sales 3,174 (52) — — (60) 3,062selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,471 (7) — — (21) 3,443research and development expenses 1,748 (1) — — (6) 1,740amortization of intangible assets 961 (930) — — — 31restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 316 — (202) — (114) —other (income)/deductions––net 1,068 7 — — (1,305) (230)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 2,410 984 202 — 1,506 5,101provision for taxes on income(b) 375 272 73 — 463 1,184income from continuing operations 2,035 712 129 — 1,042 3,917discontinued operations––net of tax 1 — — (1) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 16 — — — — 16net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,019 712 129 (1) 1,042 3,901earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.33 0.12 0.02 — 0.17 0.64  six months ended july 3, 2016in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $26,152 $— $— $— $— $26,152cost of sales 6,026 (252) — — (147) 5,627selling, informational and administrative expenses 6,856 (8) — — (36) 6,811research and development expenses 3,478 1 — — (16) 3,463amortization of intangible assets 1,966 (1,905) — — — 61restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 457 — (317) — (140) —other (income)/deductions––net 1,398 27 — — (1,805) (380)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 5,971 2,137 317 — 2,144 10,569provision for taxes on income(b) 910 596 (26) — 1,007 2,487income from continuing operations 5,060 1,541 344 — 1,136 8,081discontinued operations––net of tax 1 — — (1) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 25 — — — — 25net income attributable to pfizer inc. 5,036 1,541 344 (1) 1,136 8,056earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.82 0.25 0.06 — 0.18 1.30see end of tables for notes (a) and (b).80  three months ended june 28, 2015in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $11,853 $— $— $— $— $11,853cost of sales 2,180 (1) (17) — (39) 2,123selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,386 1 — — (15) 3,372research and development expenses 1,734 2 — — (4) 1,732amortization of intangible assets 872 (839) — — — 33restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 86 — (51) — (35) —other (income)/deductions––net 55 3 — — (211) (153)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,539 835 68 — 305 4,747provision for taxes on income(b) 905 238 18 — 52 1,213income from continuing operations 2,635 597 50 — 252 3,534discontinued operations––net of tax 1 — — (1) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,626 597 50 (1) 252 3,525earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.42 0.10 0.01 — 0.04 0.56  six months ended june 28, 2015in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $22,717 $— $— $— $— $22,717cost of sales 4,018 (3) (26) — (60) 3,930selling, informational and administrative expenses 6,491 1 — — (43) 6,449research and development expenses 3,620 3 — — (14) 3,609amortization of intangible assets 1,811 (1,745) — — — 67restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 146 — (65) — (81) —other (income)/deductions––net 9 5 — — (335) (320)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 6,621 1,738 91 — 532 8,982provision for taxes on income(b) 1,610 499 24 — 113 2,247income from continuing operations 5,011 1,239 67 — 419 6,736discontinued operations––net of tax 6 — — (6) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 14 — — — — 14net income attributable to pfizer inc. 5,002 1,239 67 (6) 419 6,721earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.80 0.20 0.01 — 0.07 1.07(a) for details of adjustments, see “details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted income” below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 23.2% in the second quarter of 2016, compared with 25.6% in the second quarter of 2015. this decline was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings, as well as an increase in tax benefits associated with the u.s. r&d tax credit, which was not in effect in the prior year quarter but was permanently extended on december 18, 2015. the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 23.5% in the first six months of 2016, compared with 25.0% in the first six months of 2015. this decline was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings, an increase in tax benefits associated with the u.s. r&d tax credit, which was not in effect in the first six months of the prior year but was permanently extended on december 18, 2015, as well as an increase in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations.81details of income statement items included in gaap reported but excluded from non-gaap adjusted incomeadjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items:  three months ended six months ended(millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015purchase accounting adjustments        amortization, depreciation and other(a) $932 $834 $1,885 $1,735cost of sales 52 1 252 3total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 984 835 2,137 1,738income taxes(b) (272) (238) (596) (499)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 712 597 1,541 1,239acquisition-related costs        restructuring charges(c) 26 8 30 5transaction costs(c) 36 1 60 6integration costs(c) 139 42 227 54additional depreciation––asset restructuring(d) — 17 — 26total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 202 68 317 91income taxes(e) (73) (18) 26 (24)total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 129 50 344 67discontinued operations        total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc.(f) (1) (1) (1) (6)certain significant items        restructuring charges(g) 114 35 140 81implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(h) 117 56 228 114certain legal matters, net(i) 261 92 546 92certain asset impairments(i) 816 — 947 —business and legal entity alignment costs(j) 60 63 111 164other(k) 138 58 172 81total certain significant items––pre-tax 1,506 305 2,144 532income taxes(l) (463) (52) (1,007) (113)total certain significant items––net of tax 1,042 252 1,136 419total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $1,882 $899 $3,020 $1,719(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. (c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. transaction costs primarily represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes.(d) represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions. included in cost of sales for both the three and six months ended july 3, 2016 and june 28, 2015.(e) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the six months ended july 3, 2016 were unfavorably impacted by the remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities resulting from plant network restructuring activities.(f) included in discontinued operations––net of tax. for the three and six months ended june 28, 2015, represents post-close adjustments.(g) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions. included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). (h) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended july 3, 2016, virtually all included in cost of sales ($90 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($20 million) and research and development expenses ($6 million). for the three months ended june 28, 2015, virtually all included in cost of sales ($39 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($13 million) and research and development 82expenses ($4 million). for the six months ended july 3, 2016, virtually all included in cost of sales ($180 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($33 million) and research and development expenses ($14 million). for the six months ended june 28, 2015, virtually all included in cost of sales ($61 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($39 million) and research and development expenses ($14 million).(i) included in other (income)/deductions—net (see the “other (income)/deductions—net” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net).(j) included in other (income)/deductions––net. represents expenses for changes to our infrastructure to align our commercial operations, including costs to internally separate our businesses into distinct legal entities as well as to streamline our intercompany supply operations to better support each business.(k) primarily all included in other (income)/deductions––net (see the “other (income)/deductions—net” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net).(l) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the first six months of 2016 were favorably impacted by benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in february 2016 to resolve certain claims related to protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our assessment of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position, as well as benefits associated with our venezuela operations.83analysis of operating segment informationthe following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments—the ih segment and the eh segment. for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information, as well as the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” section of the md&a in our form 10-q for the quarter ended april 3, 2016, which presents selected balance sheet information for the businesses previously managed as the gip segment and the voc segment, which are now managed as the ih segment, and for the established products business, which has been renamed pfizer essential health.effective as of the beginning of 2016, the following changes impact eh:•our entire contract manufacturing business, pfizer centreone (previously known as pfizer centresource or pcs), is part of eh. pfizer centreone consists of (i) the revenues and expenses of legacy pfizer's contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including the revenues and expenses related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis; and (ii) the revenues and expenses of legacy hospira's one-2-one sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation, which has been included in eh since we acquired hospira on september 3, 2015. prior to 2016, pcs was managed outside our operating segments as part of pgs and reported as "other business activities". we have reclassified prior period pcs operating results ($133 million of pcs revenues and $30 million of pcs earnings in the second quarter of 2015, and $244 million of pcs revenues and $52 million of pcs earnings in the first six months of 2015) to conform to the current period presentation as part of eh. •in connection with the formation of a new eh r&d organization, certain functions transferred from pfizer’s wrd organization to the new eh r&d organization. the new r&d organization within eh expects to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. we have reclassified approximately $67 million of costs in the second quarter of 2015 and $134 million of costs in the first six months of 2015 from wrd to eh to conform to the current period presentation as part of eh.effective as of the beginning of the second quarter of 2016, the following changes impact ih:•in connection with the formation of the gpd organization, a new unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios, certain development-related functions transferred from ih to gpd. we have reclassified approximately $76 million of costs in the first quarter of 2016, approximately $73 million of costs in the second quarter of 2015 and approximately $147 million of costs in the first six months of 2015 from ih to gpd to conform to the current period presentation as part of gpd.the following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  second quarter of 2016(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $7,105 $6,042 $— $13,147 $— $13,147cost of sales 997 1,678 388 3,062 112 3,174% of revenue 14.0% 27.8% * 23.3% * 24.1%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,615 885 943 3,443 28 3,471research and development expenses 583 308 849 1,740 7 1,748amortization of intangible assets 24 7 — 31 930 961restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 316 316other (income)/deductions––net (292) (34) 96 (230) 1,298 1,068income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $4,179 $3,198 $(2,276) $5,101 $(2,691) $2,410see end of tables for notes (a) through (d).84 six months ended july 3, 2016(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $14,139 $12,013 $— $26,152 $— $26,152cost of sales 1,891 3,131 605 5,627 399 6,026% of revenue 13.4% 26.1% * 21.5% * 23.0%selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,300 1,622 1,889 6,811 44 6,856research and development expenses 1,145 584 1,734 3,463 15 3,478amortization of intangible assets 48 13 — 61 1,905 1,966restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 457 457other (income)/deductions––net (528) (194) 342 (380) 1,778 1,398income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $8,282 $6,857 $(4,570) $10,569 $(4,598) $5,971 second quarter of 2015(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $6,630 $5,223 $— $11,853 $— $11,853cost of sales 937 1,042 144 2,123 58 2,180% of revenue 14.1% 19.9% * 17.9% * 18.4%selling, informational and administrative expenses 1,619 840 913 3,372 15 3,386research and development expenses 573 219 941 1,732 2 1,734amortization of intangible assets 23 10 — 33 839 872restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 86 86other (income)/deductions––net (286) (31) 164 (153) 209 55income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $3,764 $3,144 $(2,161) $4,747 $(1,208) $3,539 six months ended june 28, 2015(millions of dollars) innovative health (ih)(a) essential health (eh)(a) other(b) non-gaapadjusted(c) reconciling items(d) gaap reportedrevenues $12,368 $10,348 $— $22,717 $— $22,717cost of sales 1,703 2,044 182 3,930 89 4,018% of revenue 13.8% 19.8% * 17.3% * 17.7%selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,021 1,544 1,884 6,449 42 6,491research and development expenses 1,315 419 1,875 3,609 10 3,620amortization of intangible assets 47 20 — 67 1,745 1,811restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — 146 146other (income)/deductions––net (531) (38) 249 (320) 329 9income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $6,813 $6,359 $(4,190) $8,982 $(2,361) $6,621(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. on september 3, 2015, we acquired hospira. commencing from the acquisition date, our condensed consolidated statement of income includes the operating results of hospira. as a result, legacy hospira commercial operations, including the legacy hospira one-2-one contract manufacturing business, are included in eh’s operating results in our condensed consolidated statements of income for the second quarter and first six months of 2016, but not for the second quarter and first six months of 2015. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions for additional information.(b) other comprises the revenues and costs included in our adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following:85  second quarter of 2016  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) medical(iii) corporate(iv) other unallocated(v) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — — 51 337 388selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 34 876 33 943research and development expenses 527 161 — 156 6 849amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (13) — — 173 (64) 96loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(514) $(161) $(34) $(1,256) $(312) $(2,276)  six months ended july 3, 2016  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) medical(iii) corporate(iv) other unallocated(v) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — — 91 514 605selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 61 1,776 52 1,889research and development expenses 1,054 315 — 354 11 1,734amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (27) — — 399 (29) 342loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(1,028) $(315) $(61) $(2,619) $(548) $(4,570)  second quarter of 2015  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) medical(iii) corporate(iv) other unallocated(v) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — — 25 118 144selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 28 871 14 913research and development expenses 544 150 7 231 9 941amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (15) — — 159 19 164loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(530) $(150) $(35) $(1,286) $(160) $(2,161)  six months ended june 28, 2015  other business activities    (millions of dollars) wrd(i) gpd(ii) medical(iii) corporate(iv) other unallocated(v) totalrevenues $— $— $— $— $— $—cost of sales — — — 48 134 182selling, informational and administrative expenses — — 54 1,807 23 1,884research and development expenses 1,085 304 13 460 13 1,875amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net (44) — — 257 36 249loss from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $(1,042) $(304) $(66) $(2,573) $(205) $(4,190)(i) wrd—the research and development expenses managed by our wrd organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our ih business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the ih segment via the newly formed gpd organization for possible clinical and commercial development. r&d spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. the wrd organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects, including eh r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event 86activities. as noted above, in connection with the formation of the new eh r&d organization, certain functions transferred from wrd to the new eh r&d organization. we have reclassified approximately $67 million of costs in the second quarter of 2015 and $134 million of costs in the first six months of 2015 from wrd to eh to conform to the current period presentation as part of eh. also, in connection with the formation of the new gpd organization, beginning in the second quarter of 2016, certain development-related functions transferred from wrd to gpd. see note (ii) below for additional information. (ii) gpd––the costs associated with our newly formed gpd organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. gpd also provides technical support and other services to pfizer r&d projects. in connection with the formation of the gpd organization, certain development-related functions transferred from wrd and ih to gpd. we have reclassified costs of approximately $78 million from wrd and $76 million from ih in the first quarter of 2016, approximately $77 million from wrd and $73 million from ih in the second quarter of 2015 and approximately $157 million from wrd and $147 million from ih in the first six months of 2015 to gpd to conform to the current period presentation as part of gpd. (iii) medical—the costs associated with our medical organization, which is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations.(iv) corporate—the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance, and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments.(v) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations not directly attributable to an operating segment.although we typically provide qualitative information about our other costs on an annual basis, updated estimates are provided in the first six months of 2016, reflecting:(i) the reorganization of our ih business; (ii) the transfer of certain wrd functions to eh; and (iii) the transfer of certain development-related functions from wrd and ih to gpd. for information purposes only, for the first six months of 2016, we estimate that other costs, in the aggregate and as described above, but excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in corporate (approximately $415 million for the first six months of 2016 in other (income)/deductions––net); and (ii) net income from investments not attributable to an operating segment and included in corporate (approximately $49 million for the first six months of 2016 in other (income)/deductions––net), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows:six months ended july 3, 2016(percentages) ih ehwrd/gpd/medical costs    selling, informational and administrative expenses 67% - 69% 31% - 33%research and development expenses 98% - 100% 0% - 2%other (income)/deductions––net * *total wrd/gpd/medical costs 96% - 98% 2% - 4%     corporate/other unallocated costs    cost of sales 24% - 26% 74% - 76%selling, informational and administrative expenses 49% - 51% 49% - 51%research and development expenses 83% - 85% 15% - 17%other (income)/deductions––net * *total corporate/other unallocated costs 49% - 51% 49% - 51%     total wrd/gpd/medical and corporate/other unallocated costs    cost of sales 24% - 26% 74% - 76%selling, informational and administrative expenses 50% - 52% 48% - 50%research and development expenses 95% - 97% 3% - 5%other (income)/deductions––net * *total wrd/gpd/medical and corporate/other unallocated costs 65% - 67% 33% - 35%*amounts not material. after excluding net interest expense included in corporate and net income from investments not attributable to an operating segment and included in corporate, other (income)/deductions––net approximates $24 million of income for the first six months of 2016.the percentages provided in the table above do not purport to reflect additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. •wrd/gpd/medical––the information provided in the table above for wrd, gpd and medical was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the r&d projects associated with each operating segment. •corporate/other unallocated––the information provided in the table above for corporate and other unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from research and development and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification. management believes that the allocations of corporate and other unallocated costs are reasonable.(c) see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a for a definition of these “adjusted income” components.(d) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and in some cases recurring (such as restructuring or legal charges), or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the “non-gaap financial measure (adjusted income)” section of this md&a. 87innovative health operating segment•ih revenues increased 7% to $7.1 billion in the second quarter of 2016, compared to $6.6 billion in the same period in 2015, and increased 14% to $14.1 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to $12.4 billion in the same period in 2015. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2% on ih revenues in the second quarter of 2016, and 4% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. ih revenues increased by 9% operationally in the second quarter of 2016 and 18% operationally in the first six months of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to the following operational factors:◦continued strong momentum from ibrance primarily in the u.s., as well as strong operational growth from eliquis globally and lyrica, xeljanz, consumer healthcare and chantix, all primarily in the u.s. (collectively, up approximately $900 million for the second quarter of 2016 and $2.0 billion for the first six months of 2016),partially offset by:◦the prevnar/prevenar 13 franchise, primarily driven by the expected decline in revenues for prevnar 13 for adults in the u.s. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year quarter. international revenues for the pediatric indication for prevenar 13 also decreased, primarily in emerging markets, reflecting timing of purchases from gavi, the vaccine alliance, and certain other markets, compared to the prior-year quarter (down approximately $230 million for the second quarter of 2016); and ◦a decline in rebif revenues in the u.s. due to the expiration of the collaboration agreement to co-promote rebif in the u.s., which expired at the end of 2015 (down approximately $90 million for the second quarter of 2016 and $140 million for the first six months of 2016).total ih revenues from emerging markets were $932 million in the second quarter of 2016, compared to $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2015, reflecting a 2% operational decrease in the second quarter of 2016 plus the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. ih revenues from emerging markets were $1.8 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to $2.0 billion in the first six months of 2015, reflecting 8% operational growth in the first six months of 2016, which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 0.1 percentage point in the second quarter of 2016, and decreased 0.4 percentage points in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily driven by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. the increase in cost of sales of 6% in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, was primarily driven by unfavorable foreign exchange and an increase in royalty expense, partially offset by favorable product mix. the increase in cost of sales of 11% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, was primarily driven by unfavorable foreign exchange, an increase in sales volumes and an increase in royalty expense.•the slight decrease in selling, informational and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, reflects favorable foreign exchange, offset by additional investment in prevnar 13 and eliquis. the increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 9% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, reflects an increase in the allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor, and additional investment in eliquis and prevnar 13, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange. •the increase in research and development expenses of 2% in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily reflects the increased costs associated with our avelumab alliance with merck kgaa. the decrease in research and development expenses of 13% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily reflects the non-recurrence of the $295 million upfront payment made to opko in the first quarter of 2015, partially offset by increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our avelumab alliance with merck kgaa and increased investment in certain late-stage pipeline programs, primarily bococizumab and tanezumab.essential health operating segment•eh revenues increased 16%, to $6.0 billion in the second quarter of 2016, compared to $5.2 billion in the same period in 2015, and increased 16% to $12.0 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to $10.3 billion in the same period in 2015. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 4% on eh revenues in the second quarter of 2016, and 6% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015. revenues increased by 19% operationally in the second quarter of 2016 and 22% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to the inclusion of legacy hospira operations of $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2016 and $2.3 billion in the first six months of 2016, partially offset by the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for certain peri-loe products, primarily zyvox in the u.s. and certain developed europe markets, as well as lyrica in certain developed europe markets. eh revenues excluding the contribution from the legacy hospira portfolio, decreased 3% operationally in the second quarter of 2016 and decreased 1% operationally in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to the following operational factors:88◦the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for certain peri-loe products, primarily zyvox in the u.s. and certain developed europe markets, as well as lyrica in certain developed europe markets (collectively, down by approximately $210 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $440 million in the first six months of 2016),partially offset by:◦growth in the legacy pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio primarily in emerging markets and the u.s. (up by approximately $80 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $170 million in the first six months of 2016); and◦growth in the legacy established products portfolio primarily in the u.s. (up by approximately $60 million in the second quarter of 2016 and $270 million in the first six months of 2016).total eh revenues from emerging markets were $1.7 billion in the second quarter of 2016, compared to $1.8 billion in the second quarter of 2015, reflecting 8% operational growth in the second quarter of 2016, driven by the inclusion of legacy hospira operations and reflecting operational growth from the legacy pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio, which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. total eh revenues from emerging markets were $3.3 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to $3.5 billion in the first six months of 2015, reflecting 9% operational growth in the first six months of 2016, driven by the inclusion of legacy hospira operations and reflecting operational growth from the legacy pfizer sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio and the legacy established products portfolio, which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 7.8 percentage points in the second quarter of 2016, and increased 6.3 percentage points in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to the inclusion of legacy hospira operations, unfavorable foreign exchange and the impact of losses of exclusivity resulting in an unfavorable change in product mix. the increase in cost of sales of 61% in the second quarter of 2016 and 53% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, was driven by the inclusion of legacy hospira operations and the unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, partially offset by lower volumes as a result of products losing exclusivity.•selling, informational and administrative expenses increased 5% in the second quarter of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to the inclusion of legacy hospira operations, partially offset by lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and favorable foreign exchange. the increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 5% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, was primarily due to the inclusion of legacy hospira operations, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange and lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives.•research and development expenses increased 41% in the second quarter of 2016, and increased 39% in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same periods in 2015, reflecting the inclusion of legacy hospira operations and increased investment in legacy pfizer biosimilar development programs.•the favorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first six months of 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily reflects resolution of a contract disagreement and favorable foreign exchange. analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomechanges in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the second quarter and the first six months of 2016 reflect the following: •for foreign currency translation adjustments, net, for the second quarter of 2016, primarily reflects the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and japanese yen; for the first six months of 2016, primarily reflects the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the u.k. pound, partially offset by the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and japanese yen.•for unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of realized amounts into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for benefit plans: actuarial gains/(losses), net, reflects the impact of the inclusion of hospira’s pension and postretirement benefit plans in our results of operations, subsequent to its acquisition, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange, large gains in the international plans in 2015 and, to a lesser extent, settlement activity. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for benefit plans: prior service credits and other, net, for the first six months of 2016, reflects an $82 million reduction in our u.s. postretirement plan obligation due to a plan change approved in june 2016 that introduced a cap on costs for certain groups within the plan, partially offset by the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) amortization of changes in prior service costs and credits previously recognized in other comprehensive income and (ii) curtailment activity. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.89analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.for information about certain balances in trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, see also the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a.for information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.for information related to changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 6. accumulated other comprehensive loss, excluding noncontrolling interests.the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of july 3, 2016, compared to december 31, 2015, generally reflect, among other things, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the following explanations exclude the impact of foreign exchange.•for trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business and an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor.•for inventories, the change reflects planned inventory reductions, offset by inventory builds in the normal course of business.•for other current assets, the change reflects an increase in vat receivable balances due to a change in our supply chain, partially offset by a decrease in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments.•for pp&e, the change reflects depreciation during the period, partially offset by capital additions in the normal course of business.•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change reflects the acquisition of anacor and the impact of measurement period adjustments related to our acquisition of hospira (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions and note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets for additional information), partially offset by amortization and impairments for the period. •for goodwill, the change primarily reflects the acquisition of anacor (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions and note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets for additional information).•for other noncurrent assets, the change reflects an increase in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments and an increase in noncurrent vat receivable balances due to a change in our supply chain.•for trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business.•for dividends payable, the change reflects the difference between the first quarter 2016 dividends declared in 2015 and the third quarter dividends declared in june 2016.•for accrued compensation and related items, the decrease reflects bonus payments made to employees during the first six months of 2016.•for other current liabilities, the change reflects payments and accruals for certain legal matters and restructuring matters, and payments for interest, partially offset by an increase in vat payable balances due to a change in our supply chain and the timing of other accruals and payments in the normal course of business.•for pension benefit obligations, net and postretirement benefit obligations, net, the change reflects a $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in january 2016, as well as the information provided in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.90•for other noncurrent liabilities, the change reflects an increase in the payables associated with our derivative financial instruments and deferred revenue from a co-development agreement, partially offset by distributions under certain of our deferred compensation programs and changes in accruals in the normal course of business.•for treasury stock, the change reflects $5 billion paid to gs&co. in march 2016 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for additional information.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows   six months ended  (millions of dollars) july 3, 2016 june 28, 2015 % changecash provided by/(used in):      operating activities $5,230 $4,770 10investing activities (323) 4,487 *financing activities (5,069) (8,852) (43)effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (68) (78) (14)net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $(230) $327 **calculation not meaningful.in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $5.2 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to $4.8 billion in the same period of 2015. the increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects an increase in operating earnings, partially offset by the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business and an increase in bonus payments made to employees.in the first six months of 2016 and 2015, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities. for the first six months of 2016 and 2015, this line item also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain legal claims accrued in prior periods, including for the first six months of 2016, protonix-related matters, and for the first six months of 2015, neurontin-related matters, partially offset by the deferral of an upfront payment received from lilly as part of a collaborative arrangement. for additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a. for additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances see also “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” in this md&a. investing activitiesour net cash used by investing activities was $323 million in the first six months of 2016, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $4.5 billion in the same period in 2015. the decrease in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to:•cash paid of $4.5 billion, net of cash acquired, for the acquisition of anacor in the first six months of 2016 compared to cash paid of $679 million, net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in the first six months of 2015. (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisitions, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions), partially offset by:•net redemptions of investments of $5.1 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to $5.3 billion in the first six months of 2015.91financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $5.1 billion in first six months of 2016, compared to $8.9 billion in the same period in 2015. the decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•net proceeds on short-term borrowings and long-term debt of $2.9 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to net payments on borrowings of $504 million in the first six months of 2015; and•purchases of common stock of $5.0 billion in the first six months of 2016, compared to $6.0 billion in the first six months of 2015; partially offset by:•proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $696 million in the first six months of 2016, compared to $981 million in the first six months of 2015.analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our research and development activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;•share repurchases;•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both s&p and moody’s. see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities.selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) july 3, 2016 december 31, 2015selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $3,411 $3,641short-term investments(a) 17,531 19,649long-term investments(a) 13,124 15,999  34,067 39,290debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 13,724 10,159long-term debt 30,457 28,740  44,181 38,899selected net financial assets/(liabilities)(b) $(10,114) $391     working capital(c) $11,746 $14,405ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.37:1 1.49:1total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity per common share(d) $10.36 $10.48(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of the credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) selected net financial assets decreased due to an increase in short-term and long-term debt, the acquisition of anacor and payments on long-term debt. for additional information, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a.92(c) the decrease in working capital is primarily due to an increase in short term borrowings, and the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business. (d) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock).for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.on june 3, 2016, we completed a public offering of $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7d. financial instruments: long-term debt).domestic and international short-term fundsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. we generally hold up to $10 billion of these short-term funds in u.s. tax jurisdictions. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). repatriation of overseas funds can result in additional u.s. federal, state and local income tax payments. we record u.s. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s., no accrual for u.s. taxes is provided.accounts receivablewe continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. historically, payments from a number of these european governments and government agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. specifically, we have received limited payments in 2015 and 2016 from the greek government on outstanding receivables; the majority of such receivables pertain to 2015 and 2016 revenues. also, the greek government has restructured its debt to other third parties in the third quarter of 2015. accordingly, we have adjusted our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect these events, and have $55 million in net receivables from the greek government as of july 3, 2016. reported revenues from greece for the six months ended july 3, 2016 were $127 million. we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments).as of july 3, 2016, we had about $752 million in aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in italy, spain, greece and portugal where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $97 million, were as follows: $65 million in italy; $17 million in portugal; $10 million in greece; and $5 million in spain.although certain european governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs.we will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts.our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. for information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions included in our 2015 financial report.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.93the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debt date of last rating change rating rating outlook moody’s p-1 a1 negative outlook may 2016s&p a-1+ aa stable april 2016debt capacitywe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. as of july 3, 2016, we had access to $7.9 billion of lines of credit, of which $867 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $7.9 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request. also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2020, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings. global economic conditions––general the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. global economic conditions––u.k.in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted to leave the eu. the u.k. government has not formally notified the european council of their intention to leave the eu, which would begin a two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. this process is expected to be highly complex, and may, if needed, be bi-laterally extended. the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu.however, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening u.k. pound relative to the u.s. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu. in addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable.global economic conditions––venezuela operations our venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. in the second quarter of 2015, the venezuelan government identified three official rates of exchange. these are the cencoex rate of 6.3; the sicad rate of 13.5 (as of august 2016); and the simadi rate of 640 (as of august 2016). effective in march 2016, the cencoex rate was replaced by the dipro rate of 10 (as of august 2016); the sicad rate ceased to be offered; and the simadi rate was planned to be replaced by the dicom rate, but the dicom rate is not published. the venezuelan government continues to publish the simadi rate, and that rate has grown from 206 in march to about 640 (as of august 2016). based on recent conditions in venezuela, we resolved that our venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation are no longer expected to be substantially settled at the venezuelan government cencoex official rate of 6.3 or the dipro rate of 10, but at a rate of 500 at the end of the second quarter.we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the venezuelan currency or whether our use of the simadi official rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. further, other potential actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. 94on july 11, 2016, the venezuelan government administration announced a new program under a state of emergency decree that is intended to control the use of raw materials, production and distribution of products, specifically for medicines and foods. it is uncertain how this program will be applied to pfizer in venezuela. we continue to operate in venezuela and have $12 million of net monetary assets and $84 million of non-monetary assets, excluding inventory carried at lower of cost or market, in venezuela.off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. these indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of july 3, 2016, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications were not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreementson october 23, 2014, we announced that the board of directors had authorized an $11 billion share-purchase plan, and share purchases commenced thereunder in january 2015. in december 2015, the board of directors authorized a new $11 billion share repurchase program to be utilized over time.on march 8, 2016, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with gs&co. to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. pursuant to the terms of the agreement, on march 10, 2016, we paid $5 billion to gs&co. and received an initial delivery of approximately 136 million shares of our common stock from gs&co. based on a price of $29.36 per share, which represented, based on the closing share price of our common stock on the nyse on march 8, 2016, approximately 80% of the notional amount of the accelerated share repurchase agreement. on june 20, 2016, the accelerated share repurchase agreement with gs&co. was completed, which, per the terms of the agreement, resulted in gs&co. owing us a certain number of shares of pfizer common stock. pursuant to the agreement’s settlement terms, we received an additional 18 million shares of our common stock from gs&co. on june 20, 2016. the average price paid for all of the shares delivered under the accelerated share repurchase agreement was $32.38 per share. the common stock received is included in treasury stock. this agreement was entered into pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase authorization.the following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share-purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreements:  three months ended six months ended(shares in millions, dollars in billions) july 32016(a) june 28,2015 july 3,2016(a) june 28,2015(b)shares of common stock purchased 18 — 154 182cost of purchase $— $— $5.0 6.0(a) represents shares purchased pursuant to and received upon settlement of an accelerated share repurchase agreement. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies and “unregistered sales of equity securities and use of proceeds––issuer purchases of equity securities" in part ii, item 2 of this quarterly report on form 10-q.(b) includes approximately 151 million shares purchased for $5 billion pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 12. equity in our 2015 form 10-k.after giving effect to the accelerated share repurchase agreement, our remaining share-purchase authorization is approximately $11.4 billion as of july 3, 2016.dividends on common stockin june 2016, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.30 per share, payable on september 1, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on august 5, 2016.95new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards.recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of july 3, 2016the following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin july 2015, the fasb issued an update related to inventory. the new guidance requires that inventory be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. january 1, 2017. earlier application is permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. we do not expect the provisions of this new standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in may 2014, the fasb issued amended guidance related to revenue from contracts with customers. the new guidance introduces a new principles-based framework for revenue recognition and disclosure. since its issuance the fasb has issued five asus, amending the guidance and effective date, and the sec has rescinded certain related sec guidance; the most recent of which was issued in may 2016. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after december 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. we have not yet completed our final review of the impact of this guidance, although we currently do not anticipate a material impact on our revenue recognition practices. we continue to review variable consideration, potential disclosures, and our method of adoption to complete our evaluation of the impact on our consolidated financial statements. in addition, we continue to monitor additional changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations being undertaken by the fasb, which may impact our current conclusions.in january 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. among other things, the new guidance makes the following targeted changes to existing guidance:1. requires certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. however, an entity may choose to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investment of the same issuer.2. simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment.3. requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statements. january 1, 2018. earlier application is permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. we are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.in february 2016, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on leases. the new asu provides guidance for both lessee and lessor accounting models. among other things, the new guidance requires that a right of use asset and a lease liability be recognized for leases with a duration of greater than one year. january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this guidance. however, we anticipate recognition of additional assets and corresponding liabilities related to leases on our balance sheet.96standard/description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant mattersin march 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for employee share-based payments. the new guidance changes existing guidance as follows:1. all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards) should be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. the tax effects of exercised or vested awards should be treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur. excess tax benefits will be recognized regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. excess tax benefits should be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity.2. the minimum statutory tax withholding requirement to qualify for equity classification has changed to permit withholding up to the maximum statutory tax rates in the applicable jurisdictions.3. cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes will be classified as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows.4. an entity-wide accounting policy election may be made to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest (current gaap) or to account for forfeitures when they occur. january 1, 2017, with earlier application permitted. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. although it is difficult to predict the impact as it is dependent on the timing of when employees exercise stock options and the fair value of our stock price at that time, we do not anticipate a material impact to our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.in june 2016, the fasb issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments. the new guidance replaces the incurred losses methodology in current gaap with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses using an allowance account.  january 1, 2020. earlier application is permitted as of fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. we have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “forecast,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions of hospira and anacor, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2016” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook” and “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” sections of this md&a and in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, the benefits, including cost savings, expected from our acquisition of hospira; the expected timing of a decision regarding a potential separation of our ih and eh businesses, set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook” section of this md&a; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to our pension and postretirement plans during 2016 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the 97efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products; and uncertainties regarding our ability to address the comments in complete response letters received by us with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of the fda;•the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;•risks associated with interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication;•the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of any announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all;•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;•the implementation by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•risks related to our ability to develop and launch biosimilars;•the ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;•difficulties or delays in manufacturing;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products;•the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on the pharmaceutical industry as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort;• the impact of u.s. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010—the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act––and of any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions thereof;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;98•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs, the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to product liability, patent matters, government investigations, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment, tax issues, ongoing efforts to explore various means for resolving asbestos litigation, and other legal proceedings;•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates and the volatility following the u.k. referendum in which voters approved the exit from the eu;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals;•the end result of any negotiations between the u.k. government and the eu regarding the terms of the u.k.’s exit from the eu, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesaler customers, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate;•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; •the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items;•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our research and development organization, and of the internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure;•the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; •risks related to internal control over financial reporting; and•risks and uncertainties related to our recent acquisitions of hospira and anacor, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions of hospira and anacor, including the possibility that expected cost savings related to the acquisition of hospira and accretion related to the acquisitions of hospira and anacor will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities.we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or 99projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q, 8-k and 10-k reports and our other filings with the sec.our 2015 form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented.this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings inpart i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.100