item 2. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&a)introductionour md&a is provided in addition to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes to assist readers in understanding pfizer’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the md&a is organized as follows:ñoverview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookbeginning on page 48 this section provides information about the following: our business; our performance during the third quarter and first nine months of 2015 and 2014; our operating environment; our strategy; our business development initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and our financial guidance for 2015. ñanalysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomebeginning on page 60 this section includes a revenues overview section as well as the following sub-sections:  ○  revenues - major productsbeginning on page 63 this sub-section provides revenue information for several of our major biopharmaceutical products.  ○  revenues - selected product descriptionsbeginning on page 64 this sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products.  ○  product developments - biopharmaceuticalbeginning on page 68 this sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments.  ○  costs and expensesbeginning on page 71 this sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses.  ○  provision for taxes on incomebeginning on page 74 this sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions.  ○  adjusted incomebeginning on page 74 this sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. ñanalysis of operating segment informationbeginning on page 80 this section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. ñanalysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomebeginning on page 87 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. ñanalysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsbeginning on page 87 this section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts, including accumulated other comprehensive loss. ñanalysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flowsbeginning on page 88 this section provides an analysis of our cash flows for the first nine months of 2015 and 2014. ñanalysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourcesbeginning on page 89 this section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of september 27, 2015 and december 31, 2014, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of september 27, 2015 and december 31, 2014. included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund pfizer’s future activities. ñnew accounting standardsbeginning on page 94 this section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. ñforward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsbeginning on page 95 this section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this md&a, relating to, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. such forward-looking statements are based on management’s plans and assumptions, which are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. certain amounts in our md&a may not add due to rounding. all percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts.references to our 2014 financial report refer to our 2014 financial report, which was filed as exhibit 13 to our 2014 annual report on form 10-k.46the following table provides the components of the condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars, except per common share data) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 %change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 %changerevenues $12,087 $12,361 (2) $34,804 $36,487 (5)             cost of sales 2,219 2,368 (6) 6,238 6,875 (9)% of revenues 18.4% 19.2%   17.9% 18.8%               selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,270 3,556 (8) 9,761 10,116 (4)% of revenues 27.1% 28.8%   28.0% 27.7%               research and development expenses 1,722 1,802 (4) 5,342 5,184 3% of revenues 14.2% 14.6%   15.3% 14.2%               amortization of intangible assets 937 972 (4) 2,748 3,090 (11)% of revenues 7.7% 7.9%   7.9% 8.5%               restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 581 (19) * 727 120 *% of revenues 4.8% *   2.1% 0.3%               other (income)/deductions––net 661 94 * 670 665 1income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 2,697 3,587 (25) 9,319 10,437 (11)% of revenues 22.3% 29.0%   26.8% 28.6%               provision for taxes on income 567 911 (38) 2,178 2,575 (15)effective tax rate 21.0% 25.4%   23.4% 24.7%               income from continuing operations 2,130 2,676 (20) 7,141 7,862 (9)% of revenues 17.6% 21.6%   20.5% 21.5%               discontinued operations––net of tax 8 (3) * 14 70 (80)             net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 2,139 2,672 (20) 7,155 7,932 (10)% of revenues 17.7% 21.6%   20.6% 21.7%               less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 6 36 23 25 (7)net income attributable to pfizer inc. $2,130 $2,666 (20) $7,132 $7,907 (10)% of revenues 17.6% 21.6%   20.5% 21.7%               earnings per common share––basic:            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.34 $0.42 (19) $1.15 $1.23 (7)discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — 0.01 (100)net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.35 $0.42 (17) $1.15 $1.24 (7)             earnings per common share––diluted:            income from continuing operations attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.34 $0.42 (19) $1.14 $1.22 (7)discontinued operations––net of tax — — — — 0.01 (100)net income attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders $0.34 $0.42 (19) $1.14 $1.23 (7)             cash dividends paid per common share $0.28 $0.26 8 $0.84 $0.78 8* calculation not meaningful.47overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlookour businesswe apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. we work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. we collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered by other companies (alliance revenues).the financial information included in our condensed consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the u.s. is as of and for the three and nine months ended august 23, 2015 and august 24, 2014.on september 3, 2015 (the acquisition date), we acquired hospira, inc. (hospira) for approximately $16.0 billion in cash ($15.6 billion, net of cash acquired). commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of hospira, and, in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended september 27, 2015 reflect one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations but do not include any financial results from legacy hospira international operations. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions for additional information. hospira is now a subsidiary of pfizer. the combination of local pfizer and hospira entities may be pending in various jurisdictions and integration is subject to completion of various local legal and regulatory steps. we expect to generate $800 million of annual cost synergies by 2018 in connection with the hospira acquisition. based on our past experience, the one-time costs to generate the synergies are expected to be approximately $1 billion, incurred for up to a three-year period post-acquisition.our 2015 performancerevenues––third quarter 2015 revenues in the third quarter of 2015 were $12.1 billion, a decrease of 2% compared to the same period in 2014, which reflects an operational increase of $795 million, or 6%, more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.1 billion, or 9%. the operational increase was primarily the result of: •the performance of several key products in developed markets, including the continued strong uptake of prevnar 13 among adults (largely in the u.s.), ibrance (in the u.s.) and eliquis, all products that are early in their life cycles, as well as from lyrica (the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip)) (primarily in the u.s.) (collectively, up approximately $980 million); •inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations of $330 million; and•a 5% operational increase in revenues in emerging markets, reflecting continued strong operational growth primarily from the innovative products business (up approximately $140 million), partially offset by:•the loss of exclusivity and associated multi-source generic competition for celebrex in the u.s. in december 2014 (down approximately $470 million); and•the loss of exclusivity for zyvox in the u.s. and lyrica (global established pharmaceutical segment (gep)) in certain developed europe markets (collectively, down approximately $290 million).revenues––first nine months 2015revenues in the first nine months of 2015 were $34.8 billion, a decrease of 5% compared to the same period in 2014, which reflects an operational increase of $1.2 billion or 3%, more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $2.9 billion, or 8%. the operational increase was primarily the result of:•the performance of several key products in developed markets, including the continued strong uptake of prevnar 13 among adults (largely in the u.s.), eliquis, ibrance (in the u.s.), lyrica (gip) (primarily in the u.s. and japan), xeljanz (primarily in the u.s.) and viagra (gip) (collectively, up approximately $2.7 billion); 48•a 7% operational increase in revenues in emerging markets, reflecting continued strong operational growth, primarily from prevenar 13 and lipitor (up approximately $620 million); and•inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations of $330 million,partially offset by:•the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-source generic competition for celebrex in the u.s. in december 2014 (down approximately $1.3 billion);•the loss of exclusivity for zyvox in the u.s., lyrica (gep) in certain developed europe markets, celebrex in canada, developed europe and australia, rapamune in the u.s. and inspra in developed europe (collectively, down approximately $840 million), and the loss of exclusivity for certain other products (collectively, down approximately $190 million); •the performance of certain other products in developed markets and benefix in the u.s. (collectively, down approximately $250 million); and•the termination of the spiriva co-promotion collaboration in certain countries (down approximately $100 million).income from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2015 was $2.1 billion, compared to $2.7 billion in the third quarter of 2014, primarily reflecting, among other items, in addition to the operational and foreign exchange impacts for revenues described above:•higher restructuring charges (up $600 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives);•higher asset impairments (up $391 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net); and•higher other, net (up $205 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net),partially offset by:•a lower effective tax rate (down 4.4 percentage points to 21.0%) (see also the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters);•lower selling, informational and administrative expenses (down $286 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative expenses (si&a) expenses” section of this md&a);•lower cost of sales (down $149 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a);•lower research and development expenses (down $80 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––research and development (r&d) expenses” section of this md&a); •lower net interest expense (down $78 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net); and•lower amortization of intangible assets (down $36 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets ” section of this md&a).income from continuing operations for the first nine months of 2015 was $7.1 billion, compared to $7.9 billion in the first nine months of 2014, primarily reflecting, among other items, in addition to the operational and foreign exchange impacts for revenues described above:•higher restructuring charges (up $607 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives);•higher asset impairments (up $300 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net); •higher other, net (up $296 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net); •higher research and development expenses (up $158 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––research and development (r&d) expenses” section of this md&a); and•higher charges for business and legal entity alignment activities (up $110 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net), 49partially offset by:•lower cost of sales (down $638 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––cost of sales” section of this md&a);•lower legal charges (down $621 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net);•a lower effective tax rate (down 1.3% percentage points to 23.4%) (see also the “provision for taxes on income” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 5. tax matters);•lower selling, informational and administrative expenses (down $355 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––selling, informational and administrative expenses (si&a) expenses” section of this md&a);•lower amortization of intangible assets (down $342 million) (see also the “costs and expenses––amortization of intangible assets” section of this md&a); and•lower net interest expense (down $171 million) (see also the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 4. other (income)/deductions––net).our operating environmentindustry-specific challengesthe majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. as explained more fully in our 2014 annual report on form 10-k, the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. as a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. these factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition among branded products. we also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. for additional information about these factors and challenges, see “the global economic environment” section of this md&a.intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rightsthe loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. we have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products and alliance products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years.see the “intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2014 financial report for information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity impacting product revenues and (ii) recent and expected losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years. for additional information, see the “patents and other intellectual property rights” section in part i, item 1, “business”, of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k.we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “revenues––major biopharmaceutical products” and “revenues––selected product descriptions” sections of this md&a. for a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.regulatory environment/pricing and access––u.s. healthcare legislationin march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (together, the u.s. healthcare legislation, and also known as the affordable care act, or aca), was enacted in the u.s. for additional information, see the “government regulation and price constraints” section in part i, item 1, “business”, of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k. 50we recorded the following amounts as a result of the u.s. healthcare legislation:•$270 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $215 million in the third quarter of 2014, and $706 million in the first nine months of 2015 and $420 million in the first nine months of 2014, recorded as a reduction to revenues, related to the higher, extended and expanded rebate provisions and the medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and •$81 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $268 million in the third quarter of 2014, and $170 million in the first nine months of 2015 and $292 million in the first nine months of 2014, recorded in selling, informational and administrative expenses, related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. the decreases in the third quarter and first nine months of 2015 were primarily a result of the non-recurrence of a $215 million charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs).  the decrease for the first nine months of 2015 also reflects a decrease in the favorable true-up in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the favorable true-up in the first nine months of 2014, associated with the final invoice for the respective prior-calendar year received from the federal government, which reflected a lower share than that of the initial invoice. the final regulations did not change the payment schedule for the branded prescription drug fee; accordingly there was no cash flow impact in 2014 from the $215 million charge.regulatory environment/pricing and access––government and other payer group pressuresgovernments, managed care organizations and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. in the u.s., a primary government activity with implications for pricing is deficit reduction. any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. additionally, policy efforts designed specifically to reduce patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts. a number of the candidates for the 2016 u.s. presidential elections have already introduced such policy proposals. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we continue to work with stakeholders to ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. the aca, which expanded the role of the u.s. government as a healthcare payer, is accelerating changes in the u.s. healthcare marketplace, and the potential for additional pricing and access pressures continues to be significant. many of these developments may impact drug utilization, in particular branded drug utilization. some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the aca to be imposed in 2018, are already scaling back healthcare benefits. some health plans and pharmacy benefit managers are seeking greater pricing predictability from pharmaceutical manufacturers in contractual negotiations. other health plans and pharmacy benefit managers are increasing their focus on spending on specialty medicines by implementing co-insurance in place of a flat co-payment. because co-insurance passes on a percentage of a drug’s cost to the patient, this shift has the potential to significantly increase patient out-of-pocket costs.overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. 51the global economic environmentin addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. •we believe that patients, who are experiencing increases in co-pays and restrictions on access to medicines as payers seek to control costs, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. we are exposed to negative pricing pressure in various markets around the world. the u.s. has highly competitive insurance markets, and europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets have government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global pressures. furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to restricted access to and lower prices for new medicines.•we continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets, including greece, where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. for further information about our accounts receivable, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.•significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance.the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela, can impact our results and financial guidance. for further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a. despite the challenging financial markets, pfizer maintains a strong financial position. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. our long-term debt is rated high quality by both standard & poor’s (s&p) and moody’s investors service (moody’s). as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. for further discussion of our financial condition, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.these and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” section of this md&a and in part i, item 1a, “risk factors,” of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors,” in this quarterly report on form 10-q.our strategywe believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. we continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our products and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. we continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize access to patients and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. we remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. by doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. 52commercial operationswe manage our commercial operations through two distinct businesses: an innovative products business and an established products business. the innovative products business is composed of two operating segments, each of which is led by a single manager––the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip) and the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment (voc). the established products business consists of the global established pharmaceutical segment (gep), which is led by a single manager. each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain in-process research and development (ipr&d) projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof of concept. each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets. some additional information about each product grouping follows:•gip is focused on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines that significantly improve patients’ lives. key therapeutic areas include inflammation/immunology, cardiovascular/metabolic, neuroscience/pain, and rare diseases and include leading brands, such as xeljanz, eliquis and lyrica (u.s. and japan).•voc focuses on the development and commercialization of vaccines and products for oncology and consumer health. consumer healthcare manufactures and markets several well known, over-the-counter (otc) products. each of the three businesses in voc operates as a separate, global business with distinct specialization in terms of the science and market approach necessary to deliver value to consumers and patients. •gep includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose exclusivity, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars and medical devices. additionally, gep has the knowledge and resources within r&d to develop small molecules, injectables and biosimilars. on september 3, 2015, we acquired hospira, which is now part of gep. commencing from the acquisition date, and in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements and gep’s operating results for the three and nine months ended september 27, 2015 reflect one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations but do not include any financial results from legacy hospira international operations. see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions for additional information.we expect that the gip and voc biopharmaceutical portfolios of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. the assets managed by these groups are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers.gep is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. gep leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. additionally, gep leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. we may also engage in targeted business development to further enable our commercial strategies.for additional information about our operating structure, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 13a. segment, geographic and other revenue information: segment information.for additional information about the 2015 performance for each of our operating segments, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.research operationswe continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules––immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars. with the acquisition of hospira, we have expanded our biosimilars pipeline and added r&d capabilities with sterile injectables and medical devices.while a significant portion of r&d is done internally, we continue to seek to enhance our pipeline of potential future products by entering into collaborations, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and 53equity-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. collaboration, alliance and license agreements, as well as equity-based investments, allow us to share risk and cost, to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products.for additional information about r&d by operating segment, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a. for additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of income––product developments––biopharmaceutical” section of this md&a. for additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline and maximize the value of our in-line products, see the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.intellectual property rightswe continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. in addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. for additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a1. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings––patent litigation.capital allocation and expense managementwe seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through dividends and share repurchases. for additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases and dividends, see the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a.on september 3, 2015, (the acquisition date), we acquired hospira for approximately $16.0 billion in cash ($15.6 billion, net of cash acquired). see note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions for additional information.we remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the company. for additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a.on february 9, 2015, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with goldman, sachs & co. (gs&co.) to repurchase shares of our common stock. this agreement was entered into under our previously announced share repurchase authorization. in july 2015, we completed the agreement. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies.our business development initiativeswe are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, dispositions and acquisitions. we view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. we are especially interested in opportunities in our high-priority therapeutic areas––immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases––and in emerging markets and established products, including biosimilars. we assess our businesses and assets as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities for our businesses. we are continuing to consider whether a further separation of our innovative products and established products businesses would be in the best interests of our stockholders. however, no decision has been made regarding any such separation. for additional information on our business development activities, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment.54acquisition of hospira description of transaction on september 3, 2015 (the acquisition date), we acquired hospira, the world’s leading provider of sterile injectable drugs and infusion technologies as well as a provider of biosimilars, for approximately $16.0 billion in cash ($15.6 billion, net of cash acquired).recording of assets acquired and liabilities assumed our acquisition of hospira has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which generally requires that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. a single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. our judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. for instance, the determination of asset lives can impact our results of operations as different types of assets will have different useful lives and certain assets may even be considered to have indefinite useful lives. for the provisional amounts recognized for the hospira assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions. the estimated values are not yet finalized and are subject to change, which could be significant. we will finalize the amounts recognized as we obtain the information necessary to complete the analyses. we expect to finalize the amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.below is a summary of the methodologies and significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of certain classes of assets and liabilities of hospira.for financial instruments acquired from hospira, our valuation approach was consistent with our valuation methodologies used for our legacy pfizer financial instruments. for additional information on the valuation of our financial instruments, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments. inventories—the fair value of acquired inventory was determined as follows:•finished goods—estimated selling price, less an estimate of costs to be incurred to sell the inventory, and an estimate of a reasonable profit allowance for that selling effort.•work in process—estimated selling price of an equivalent finished good, less an estimate of costs to be incurred to complete the work-in-process inventory, an estimate of costs to be incurred to sell the inventory and an estimate of a reasonable profit allowance for those manufacturing and selling efforts.•raw materials and supplies—estimated cost to replace the raw materials and supplies.the fair value of inventory will be recognized in our results of operations as the inventory is sold. some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of inventory include stage of completion, costs to complete, costs to dispose and selling price. all of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of operations. property, plant and equipment—the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment is determined using a variety of valuation approaches, depending on the nature of the asset and the quality of available information. the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment was primarily determined as follows:•land––market, a sales comparison approach that measures value of an asset through an analysis of sales and offerings of comparable property.•buildings, machinery and equipment and furniture and fixtures—replacement cost, an approach that measures the value of an asset by estimating the cost to acquire or construct comparable assets. for buildings that are not highly specialized or that could be income producing if leased to a third party, we also considered market and income factors.•construction in progress—replacement cost, generally assumed to equal historical book value.the fair value of property, plant and equipment will be recognized in our results of operations over the expected useful life of the individual depreciable assets. 55some of the more significant inputs, estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of property, plant and equipment include the nature, age, condition or location of the land, buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and fixtures, and construction in progress, as applicable, as well as the estimate of market and replacement cost and the determination of the appropriate valuation premise, in-use or in-exchange. the in-use valuation premise assesses the value of an asset when used in combination with other assets (for example, on an installed basis), while the in-exchange valuation assesses the value of an asset on a stand alone basis. identifiable intangible assets—the fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets generally is determined using an income approach. this method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows associated with the asset and then adjusts the forecast to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams.the fair value of finite-lived identifiable intangible assets will be recognized in our results of operations over the expected useful life of the individual assets. some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of identifiable intangible assets include all assumptions associated with forecasting product profitability from the perspective of a market participant. specifically: •revenue—we estimate sales volume, selling prices, market penetration, market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product’s life cycle.•cost of sales, sales and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses—we estimate the costs associated with the identifiable intangible asset over the product’s life cycle.•r&d expenses—in the case of approved products, we estimate the appropriate level of ongoing r&d support, and for unapproved compounds, we estimate the amount and timing of costs to develop the r&d into viable products.•estimated life of the asset—we assess the asset’s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory or economic barriers to entry.•inherent risk—we use a discount rate that is primarily based on the weighted-average cost of capital with an additional premium to reflect the risks associated with the specific intangible asset. in addition, for unapproved assets, an additional risk factor is added for the risk of technical and regulatory success, called the probability of technical and regulatory success. •for ipr&d assets, the risk of failure has been factored into the fair value measure and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a successful product. contingencies—for acquisition date contingencies, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions. the more significant additional recent transactions and events are described below:•acquisition of nimenrix and mencevax vaccines from glaxosmithkline plc (gsk)––on september 30, 2015 (which falls in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2015), we acquired gsk’s quadrivalent meningococcal acwy vaccines, nimenrix and mencevax, for €75 million (approximately $85 million) paid on the closing date and two additional installments of €15 million and €25 million to be paid in november 2017 and november 2018, respectively. this transaction adds two high-quality and complementary vaccines to our portfolio, allowing us to reach a broader global population. we do not expect this transaction to have any significant impact on our 2015 financial performance. •acquisition of a minority interest in am-pharma b.v. (am-pharma)––on april 9, 2015, we acquired a minority equity interest in am-pharma, a privately held dutch biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of recombinant human alkaline phosphatase (recap) for inflammatory diseases, and secured an exclusive option to acquire the remaining equity in the company. the option becomes exercisable upon delivery of the clinical trial report after completion of a phase ii trial of recap in the treatment of acute kidney injury related to sepsis. results from the current phase ii trial for recap are expected in the second half of 2016. under the terms of the agreement, we paid $87.5 million for both the exclusive option and the minority equity interest, which was recorded as a cost-method investment in long-term investments, and we may make additional payments of up to $512.5 million upon exercise of the option and potential launch of any product that may result from this investment.56•collaboration with opko health, inc. (opko)––on december 13, 2014, we entered into a collaborative agreement with opko to develop and commercialize opko’s long-acting human growth hormone (hgh-ctp) for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency (ghd) in adults and children, as well as for the treatment of growth failure in children born small for gestational age (sga) who fail to show catch-up growth by two years of age. hgh-ctp has the potential to reduce the required dosing frequency of human growth hormone to a single weekly injection from the current standard of one injection per day. we have received the exclusive license to commercialize hgh-ctp worldwide. opko will lead the clinical activities and will be responsible for funding the development programs for the key indications, which include adult and pediatric ghd and pediatric sga. we will be responsible for all development costs for additional indications, all postmarketing studies, manufacturing and commercialization activities for all indications, and we will lead the manufacturing activities related to product development. the transaction closed on january 28, 2015, upon termination of the waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino act. in february 2015, we made an upfront payment of $295 million to opko, which was recorded in research and development expenses, and opko is eligible to receive up to an additional $275 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones. opko is also eligible to receive royalty payments associated with the commercialization of hgh-ctp for adult ghd, which is subject to regulatory approval. upon the launch of hgh-ctp for pediatric ghd, which is subject to regulatory approval, the royalties will transition to tiered gross profit sharing for both hgh-ctp and our product, genotropin.•acquisition of marketed vaccines business of baxter international inc. (baxter)––on december 1, 2014 (which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2015 for our international operations), we acquired baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines for a final purchase price of $648 million. the portfolio that was acquired consists of neisvac-c and fsme-immun/ticovac. neisvac-c is a vaccine that helps protect against meningitis caused by group c meningococcal meningitis and fsme-immun/ticovac is a vaccine that helps protect against tick-borne encephalitis.•collaboration with merck kgaa––on november 17, 2014, we entered into a collaborative agreement with merck kgaa, to jointly develop and commercialize avelumab, an investigational anti-pd-l1 antibody currently in development as a potential treatment for multiple types of cancer. we and merck kgaa are exploring the therapeutic potential of this novel anti-pd-l1 antibody as a single agent as well as in various combinations with our and merck kgaa’s broad portfolio of approved and investigational oncology therapies. the companies will collaborate on up to 20 high priority immuno-oncology clinical development programs, including combination trials, in 2015. these clinical development programs include up to six trials (phase 1b/2 or phase 3) that could be pivotal for potential product registrations. we and merck kgaa are also combining resources and expertise to advance pfizer’s anti-pd-1 antibody into phase 1 trials. under the terms of the agreement, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we made an upfront payment of $850 million to merck kgaa and merck kgaa is eligible to receive regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to approximately $2.0 billion. both companies will jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-pd-l1 or anti-pd-1 products from this collaboration. also, as part of the agreement, we gave merck kgaa certain co-promotion rights for xalkori in the u.s. and several other key markets. •acquisition of innopharma, inc. (innopharma)––on september 24, 2014, we completed our acquisition of innopharma, a privately held pharmaceutical development company, for an upfront cash payment of $225 million and contingent milestone payments of up to $135 million.•license from cellectis sa (cellectis)––on june 18, 2014, we entered into a global arrangement with cellectis to develop chimeric antigen receptor t-cell immunotherapies in the field of oncology directed at select cellular surface antigen targets. in august 2014, in connection with this licensing agreement, we made an upfront payment of $80 million to cellectis, which was recorded in research and development expenses. we will also fund r&d costs associated with 15 pfizer-selected targets and, for the benefit of cellectis, a portion of the r&d costs associated with four cellectis-selected targets within the arrangement. cellectis is eligible to receive development, regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to $185 million per product that results from the pfizer-selected targets. cellectis is also eligible to receive tiered royalties on net sales of any products that are commercialized by pfizer.•collaboration with eli lilly & company (lilly)––in october 2013, we entered into a collaboration agreement with lilly to jointly develop and globally commercialize pfizer’s tanezumab, which provides that pfizer and lilly will equally share product-development expenses as well as potential revenues and certain product-related costs. following the decision by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) in march 2015 to lift the partial clinical hold on the tanezumab development program, we received a $200 million upfront payment from lilly in accordance with the collaboration agreement between pfizer and lilly, which is recorded as deferred income in our condensed consolidated balance sheet and is being recognized into other (income)/deductions––net over a multi-year period beginning in the second quarter of 2015. pfizer and lilly resumed the phase 3 chronic pain program for tanezumab in july 2015, which will consist of 6 studies in approximately 7,000 patients across osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain. under the collaboration agreement with lilly, we 57are eligible to receive additional payments from lilly upon the achievement of specified regulatory and commercial milestones.•license of nexium otc rights––in august 2012, we entered into an agreement with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca) for the exclusive, global, otc rights for nexium, a leading prescription drug approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. in connection with this consumer healthcare licensing agreement, we made an upfront payment of $250 million to astrazeneca, which was recorded in research and development expenses when incurred. on may 27, 2014, we launched nexium 24hr in the u.s., and on july 11, 2014, we paid astrazeneca a related $200 million product launch milestone payment. on august 1, 2014, we launched nexium control in europe, and on september 15, 2014, we paid astrazeneca a related $50 million product launch milestone payment. these post-approval milestone payments were recorded in identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization in the consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized over the estimated useful life of the nexium brand. astrazeneca is eligible to receive additional milestone payments of up to $300 million, based on the level of worldwide sales as well as royalty payments, based on worldwide sales.for a description of the more significant recent transactions through february 27, 2015, the filing date of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k, see the “our business development initiatives” section of our 2014 financial report.announcement regarding allergan plc (allergan)on october 29, 2015, we issued an announcement confirming that we are in preliminary friendly discussions with allergan in relation to a potential transaction. we emphasize that no agreement has been reached and there can be no certainty that these discussions will be pursued or lead to a transaction, as to the terms on which a transaction, if any, might be agreed, or, if a transaction is agreed to, as to whether it will be completed or the timing thereof.our financial guidance for 2015on october 27, 2015, we announced updates to ranges for certain components of our 2015 financial guidance issued on september 30, 2015 with respect to reported revenues and reported and adjusted diluted earnings per share (eps) and issued on july 28, 2015 with respect to all other components of financial guidance, primarily to reflect:•operational factors impacting pfizer-standalone (excluding legacy hospira) operations, including strong performance to date coupled with an improved business outlook for the remainder of the year;▪the anticipated impact of legacy hospira operations from september 3, 2015 through fiscal year-end 2015 on financial guidance components other than reported revenues and adjusted diluted eps; and▪a minimal favorable impact from foreign exchange rates since mid-july 2015.the following table provides our financial guidance for full year 2015(a), (b):reported revenues$47.5 to $48.5 billion(previously $46.5 to $47.5 billion)adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of reported revenues18.7% to 19.2%(previously 18.0% to 18.5%)adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses$13.6 to $14.1 billion(previously $12.8 to $13.8 billion)adjusted research and development expenses$7.5 to $7.8 billion(previously $7.3 to $7.6 billion)adjusted other (income)/deductionsapproximately ($500 million) of incomeeffective tax rate on adjusted incomeapproximately 25.0%reported diluted eps$1.37 to $1.43(previously $1.29 to $1.38)adjusted diluted eps$2.16 to $2.20(previously $2.04 to $2.10)58the following table provides a reconciliation of 2015 adjusted income and adjusted diluted eps guidance to the 2015 reported net income attributable to pfizer inc. and reported diluted eps attributable to pfizer inc. common shareholders guidance:  full-year 2015 guidance(a), (b)(billions of dollars, except per share amounts) net income diluted epsadjusted income/diluted eps guidance(b) $13.5 - $13.8 $2.16 - $2.20purchase accounting impacts of transactions completed as of september 27, 2015 (2.9) (0.47)restructuring, implementation and other acquisition-related costs (1.0) - (1.2) (0.16) - (0.18)certain other items incurred through september 27, 2015(c) (0.6) (0.10)business and legal entity alignment costs (0.3) (0.04)reported net income attributable to pfizer inc./diluted eps guidance $8.5 - $9.0 $1.37 - $1.43(a) the 2015 financial guidance reflects the following:•does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of september 27, 2015, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions.•excludes the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of september 27, 2015.•exchange rates assumed are a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through the third quarter of 2015 and the mid-october 2015 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. excludes the impact of a potential devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar.•guidance for reported revenues reflects the anticipated negative impact of $3.3 billion due to recent and expected generic competition for certain pfizer-standalone (excluding legacy hospira) products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. •guidance for pfizer-standalone (excluding legacy hospira) reported revenues also reflects the anticipated negative impact of $3.1 billion as a result of unfavorable changes in essentially all foreign exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2014.•guidance for the effective tax rate on adjusted income does not assume the renewal of the u.s. research and development (r&d) tax credit. the renewal of the u.s. r&d tax credit is not anticipated to have a material impact on the effective tax rate on adjusted income.•guidance for reported and adjusted diluted eps assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.25 billion shares, inclusive of share repurchases in 2015.(b) for an understanding of adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted eps (all of which are non-gaap financial measures), see the “adjusted income” section of this md&a.(c) primarily reflects charges associated with certain asset impairments, legal matters, as well as other certain significant items.for additional information about our actual and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our cost-reduction initiatives announced in 2014, the hospira acquisition, and our global commercial structure, which was established in 2014, see the “costs and expenses––restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.our 2015 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties—as described in the “our operating environment”, “our strategy” and “forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results” sections of this md&a; the “our operating environment” and “our strategy” sections of our 2014 financial report; and part i, item 1a, “risk factors,” of our 2014 annual report on form 10-k and part ii, item 1a, “risk factors,” in this quarterly report on form 10-q.59analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of incomerevenues and product developmentsrevenues––overviewthe following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geographic area:  worldwide u.s. international world-wide u.s. inter-national(millions of dollars) sep 27, 2015 sep 28, 2014 sep 27, 2015 sep 28, 2014 sep 27, 2015 sep 28, 2014 % change in revenuesthree months ended                  operating segments(a):                  gip $3,521 $3,490 $1,762 $1,579 $1,758 $1,912 1 12 (8)voc 3,231 2,511 1,960 1,217 1,272 1,294 29 61 (2)gep 5,219 6,239 1,789 2,001 3,429 4,238 (16) (11) (19)  11,971 12,240 5,511 4,796 6,460 7,444 (2) 15 (13)other(b) 116 121 54 46 62 76 (4) 18 (17)total revenues $12,087 $12,361 $5,565 $4,842 $6,522 $7,519 (2) 15 (13)                   nine months ended                  operating segments(a):                  gip $10,093 $10,114 $5,018 $4,520 $5,075 $5,594 — 11 (9)voc 9,028 7,264 5,135 3,353 3,893 3,911 24 53 —gep 15,323 18,742 4,678 6,011 10,645 12,731 (18) (22) (16)  34,444 36,119 14,831 13,884 19,613 22,236 (5) 7 (12)other(b) 360 368 162 139 198 229 (2) 16 (13)total revenues $34,804 $36,487 $14,993 $14,023 $19,811 $22,464 (5) 7 (12)(a) gip = the global innovative pharmaceutical segment; voc = the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment; and gep = the global established pharmaceutical segment. on september 3, 2015, we acquired hospira, and its commercial operations are now included within gep. commencing from the acquisition date, and in accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated statements of income, primarily gep's operating results, for the three and nine months ended september 27, 2015 reflect one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations but do not include any financial results from legacy hospira international operations. (b) includes revenues generated from pfizer centresource, our contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales organization, and also includes the revenues related to our transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis inc. (zoetis).see the “our 2015 performance” section of this md&a, for a discussion of performance of worldwide revenues. geographically, •in the u.s., revenues increased $723 million, or 15%, in the third quarter of 2015, and increased $970 million, or 7%, in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, reflecting, among other things:◦the performance of several key products, including prevnar 13 primarily in adults, ibrance (which was launched in the u.s. in february 2015), lyrica (gip), eliquis, viagra (gip) and xeljanz (collectively, up approximately $940 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $2.4 billion in the first nine months of 2015), and◦the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations of $330 million in the third quarter of 2015, partially offset by: ◦losses of exclusivity and associated multi-source generic competition for celebrex in the u.s. in december 2014 (down approximately $470 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $1.3 billion in the first nine months of 2015); ◦the loss of exclusivity for zyvox and rapamune, as well as the termination of our spiriva co-promotion collaboration (collectively, down approximately $200 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $480 million in the first nine months of 2015); and◦the performance of certain other products such as benefix for the three and nine months ended 2015 and lipitor for the nine months ended 2015 (collectively, down approximately $10 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $120 million in the first nine months of 2015).60•in our international markets, revenues decreased $1.0 billion, or 13%, in the third quarter of 2015, and decreased $2.7 billion, or 12%, in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. foreign exchange unfavorably impacted international revenues by approximately $1.1 billion, or 14%, in the third quarter of 2015 and unfavorably impacted international revenues by approximately $2.9 billion, or 13%, in the first nine months of 2015. operationally, revenues increased $72 million, or 1%, in the third quarter of 2015, and increased $201 million, or 1%, in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014 reflecting, among other things:◦higher revenues in developed markets for eliquis and lyrica (gip), as well as from vaccines acquired in december 2014 from baxter (in europe) (collectively, up approximately $150 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $430 million in the first nine months of 2015); and◦the operational increase in revenues in emerging markets, reflecting continued strong operational growth primarily from the innovative products business in the third quarter of 2015 and primarily from the innovative products business and lipitor in the first nine months of 2015 (up approximately $140 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $620 million in the first nine months of 2015), partially offset by: ◦lower revenues in developed markets for lyrica (gep), celebrex, inspra and viagra (gep) as a result of the loss of exclusivity, as well as the performance of lipitor and norvasc (collectively, down approximately $260 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $640 million in the first nine months of 2015).during the third quarter of 2015, international revenues represented 54% of total revenues, compared to 61% in the third quarter of 2014. excluding foreign exchange, international revenues in the third quarter of 2015 represented 49% of total revenues, compared to 61% in the third quarter of 2014. during the first nine months of 2015, international revenues represented 57% of total revenues, compared to 62% in the first nine months of 2014. excluding foreign exchange, international revenues in the first nine months of 2015 represented 53% of total revenues, compared to 61% in the first nine months of 2014.for additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.revenue deductionsour gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent rebates, chargebacks and sales allowances to government agencies, wholesalers/distributors and managed care organizations with respect to our pharmaceutical products. those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period, and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period.historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. on a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends.the following table provides information about deductions from revenues:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014medicare rebates(a) $264 $292 $713 $797medicaid and related state program rebates(a) 302 258874 477performance-based contract rebates(a), (b) 579 5731,625 1,644chargebacks(c) 1,285 9073,537 2,700sales allowances(d) 1,121 1,1903,015 3,171sales returns and cash discounts 318 260 945 832total(e) $3,869 $3,480 $10,708 $9,620(a) rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold.(b) performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with managed care customers within the u.s., including health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under 61these contracts. outside the u.s., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones.(c) chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to u.s. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties.(d) sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the u.s., discounts and distribution fees.(e) for the three months ended september 27, 2015, associated with the following segments: gip ($1.2 billion); voc ($0.4 billion); and gep ($2.3 billion). for the three months ended september 28, 2014, associated with the following segments: gip ($0.9 billion); voc ($0.3 billion); and gep ($2.3 billion). for the nine months ended september 27, 2015, associated with the following segments: gip ($3.1 billion); voc ($1.1 billion); and gep ($6.5 billion). for the nine months ended september 28, 2014, associated with the following segments: gip ($2.4 billion); voc ($0.8 billion); and gep ($6.4 billion).total deductions from revenues increased 11% in both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily as a result of:•an increase in chargebacks primarily due to products that have lost exclusivity in the u.s. and increasing competitive pressures, as well as increases for certain u.s. branded products and hospira sterile injectables; and•an increase in medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of updated estimates of sales related to these programs, and, for the first nine months of 2015, a decrease in managed medicaid estimated rebates in the second quarter of 2014.our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $3.8 billion as of september 27, 2015, of which approximately $2.4 billion is included in other current liabilities, $264 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.1 billion is included against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. our accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $3.4 billion as of december 31, 2014, of which approximately $2.0 billion is included in other current liabilities, $300 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.1 billion is included against trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. total accruals for medicare rebates, medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts as of september 27, 2015 increased by approximately $400 million compared to december 31, 2014, primarily due to the addition of hospira accruals as of september 27, 2015.62revenues—major productsthe following table provides revenue information for several of our major products:    three months endednine months ended(millions of dollars)   september 27, 2015 % change(b)september 27, 2015 % change(b)product primary indications business(a)   prevnar family(c) vaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease v $1,576 38$4,384 39lyrica(d) epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury gep/gip 1,220 (7)3,626 (4)enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada) rheumatoid, juvenile rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis gip 844 (12)2,426 (15)lipitor reduction of ldl cholesterol gep 454 (7)1,404 (6)viagra(e) erectile dysfunction gep/gip 430 11,274 4sutent advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mrcc), refractory gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist) and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor o 279 (3)815 (6)premarin family symptoms of menopause gep 263 (1)753 (4)norvasc hypertension gep 241 (11)744 (10)zyvox bacterial infections gep 165 (51)696 (31)celebrex arthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain gep 212 (72)640 (70)benefix hemophilia gip 194 (8)561 (12)pristiq depression gep 185 4523 (4)vfend fungal infections gep 165 (5)510 (11)chantix/champix an aid to smoking cessation treatment gip 159 1491 3genotropin replacement of human growth hormone gip 142 (18)447 (16)ibrance advanced breast cancer o 230 *408 *refacto af/xyntha hemophilia gip 130 (19)392 (18)xalkori anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive non-small cell lung cancer o 122 9353 14xeljanz rheumatoid arthritis gip 127 50351 71medrol inflammation gep 112 11327 1inlyta advanced renal cell carcinoma (rcc) o 105 2311 7xalatan/xalacom glaucoma and ocular hypertension gep 98 (21)299 (19)zoloft depression and certain anxiety disorders gep 95 (9)274 (11)epipen epinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions gep 107 36268 16relpax treats the symptoms of migraine headache gep 91 —254 (8)sulperazon antibiotic gep 72 (20)251 (7)fragmin anticoagulant gep 84 (6)246 (7)tygacil antibiotic gep 81 (5)231 (4)zithromax/zmax bacterial infections gep 68 1222 (5)effexor depression and certain anxiety disorders gep 66 (23)213 (19)toviaz overactive bladder gip 59 (14)193 (8)revatio pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah) gep 53 (17)181 (13)bmp2 development of bone and cartilage gip 57 1169 15xanax/xanax xr anxiety disorders gep 55 (11)164 (13)cardura hypertension/benign prostatic hyperplasia gep 52 (19)158 (20)somavert acromegaly gip 54 (8)158 (6)unasyn injectable antibacterial gep 50 (4)155 2neurontin seizures gep 45 (11)148 (7)rapamune prevention of organ rejection in kidney transplantation gip 32 (66)138 (49)depo-provera  contraceptive gep 45 (16)133 (9)fsme-immun/ticovac tick-borne encephalitis vaccine v 28 *93 *alliance revenues(f) various gep/gip 349 50881 29all other gip(g)   gip 98 (6)277 (19)all other v/o(g)   v/o 75 49199 39all other gep(g)   gep 1,981 55,238 (7)(a) indicates the business to which the revenues relate. gip = the global innovative pharmaceutical segment; v = the global vaccines business; o = the global oncology business; and gep = the global established pharmaceutical segment.(b) as compared to the three and nine months ended september 28, 2014, as applicable.63(c) in the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015, all revenues were composed of prevnar 13/prevenar 13. in the third quarter and first nine months of 2014, revenues were composed of the prevnar family of products, which included prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and, to a much lesser extent, prevenar (7-valent).(d) lyrica revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia countries are included in gep. all other lyrica revenues are included in gip.(e) viagra revenues from the u.s. and canada are included in gip. all other viagra revenues are included in gep.(f) includes eliquis (gip), rebif (gip), spiriva (gep) and aricept (gep).(g) all other gip, all other v/o and all other gep are subsets of gip, voc and gep, respectively.*calculation not meaningful.revenues––selected product descriptions•prevnar/prevenar 13 (v), is our pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease. overall, worldwide revenues for prevnar/prevenar 13 increased 44% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 45% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 6% in both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.in the u.s., revenues for prevnar increased 77% in the third quarter of 2015, and 81% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, mainly due to continued strong uptake among adults following the positive recommendation from the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention’s (cdc) advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) for use in adults aged 65 and older in the third quarter of 2014, the success of the commercial programs and increased demand in preparation for the upcoming flu season. we believe the “catch-up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults aged 65 and older who have not been previously vaccinated with prevnar) in adults in the u.s. will continue to be large given current demographics and aging trends. however, the remaining population of adults aged 65 years and older will likely require additional effort to capture. as a result, the opportunity will moderate over time as this “catch-up” opportunity becomes fully realized and we focus solely on those who turn 65 each year and have never received a pneumococcal vaccination.internationally, revenues for prevenar increased 10% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 11% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily reflecting increased volume in emerging markets. in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, volume was favorably impacted by prevenar’s inclusion in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets and increased shipments associated with gavi, the vaccine alliance. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 13% in the third quarter of 2015, and 12% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. in 2014, the acip voted to recommend prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. these acip recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the cdc and u.s. department of health and human services, and were published in the morbidity and mortality weekly report in september 2014 by the cdc. as with other vaccines, the cdc regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the cdc announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018. currently, we are working with a number of u.s. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends.in march 2015, the european commission approved an expanded indication for the use of prevenar 13 for the prevention of pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes in the vaccine in adults aged 18 years and older. the summary of product characteristics has also been updated to include efficacy data from our landmark community-acquired pneumonia immunization trial in adults (capita), which demonstrated statistically significant reductions in first episodes of vaccine-type pneumococcal community-acquired pneumonia (cap), including non-invasive/non-bacteremic cap, and invasive pneumococcal disease (ipd) in adults aged 65 and older.•lyrica (gep (revenues from all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia)/gip (all other revenues)) is indicated in the u.s. for three neuropathic pain conditions, fibromyalgia and adjunctive therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures. in certain markets outside the u.s., indications include neuropathic pain (peripheral and central), fibromyalgia, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and generalized anxiety disorder. worldwide revenues for lyrica were relatively flat operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and increased 3% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 7% in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.in the u.s., revenues increased 20% in the third quarter of 2015, and 16% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, driven by price and volume increases, and investment in direct-to-consumer advertising combined with strong field force performance, partially offset by higher rebates. 64internationally, lyrica revenues decreased 15% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 7% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, due to losses of exclusivity in certain developed europe markets, partially offset by operational growth primarily in japan. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 14% in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.worldwide revenues from lyrica in our gip segment increased 16% operationally in the third quarter of 2015 and 15% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, and in our gep segment, revenues from lyrica decreased 29% operationally in the third quarter of 2015 and 17% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. •enbrel (gip, outside the u.s. and canada), indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis (a type of arthritis affecting the spine), and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis, recorded an increase in worldwide revenues, excluding the u.s. and canada, of 5% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and was relatively flat operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. results for the third quarter of 2015 were favorably impacted by demand in certain markets in europe and by the timing of government purchases in latin america and africa middle east. results for the first nine months of 2015 were favorably impacted by the timing of government purchases in africa middle east and demand in certain markets in europe offset primarily by the change in the distribution channel in the u.k. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 17% in the third quarter of 2015, and 15% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•lipitor (gep) is indicated for the treatment of elevated ldl-cholesterol levels in the blood. lipitor faces generic competition in all major developed markets. branded lipitor recorded worldwide revenues of $454 million, or a decrease of 1% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and $1.4 billion, or relatively flat operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 6% in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.in the u.s., revenues increased 7% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to price increases. revenues in the u.s. decreased 35% in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to higher rebates and lower volumes. in our international markets, revenues decreased 1% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to brand erosion from generic competition in developed markets and payer pressure, partially offset by increased volumes in china; and increased 5% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to volume growth in emerging markets, largely in china, partially offset by brand erosion due to generic competition and increased payer pressure. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 7% in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•viagra (gip (u.s. and canada revenues)/gep (all other revenues excluding u.s. and canada)) is indicated for the treatment  of erectile dysfunction. viagra worldwide revenues increased 5% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 7% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to operational growth in the u.s. with respect to the third quarter of 2015 and operational growth in the u.s. and emerging markets with respect to the first nine months of 2015. international revenues decreased 11% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 6% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to the impact of generic competition in developed markets outside of north america. in the first nine months of 2015, this decline was partially offset by operational growth in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 12% in the third quarter of 2015, and 10% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. revenues in the u.s. increased 12% in the third quarter of 2015, and 14% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily driven by increased pill quantity per prescription, higher purchases from the u.s. department of veterans affairs/department of defense, and price increases, partially offset by lower patient demand.•sutent (o) is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mrcc); gastrointestinal stromal tumors after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate; and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. sutent worldwide revenues increased 10% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and increased 6% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to price increases in the u.s., as well as strong demand in certain european and emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 13% in the third quarter of 2015, and 12% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.65•our premarin family of products (gep) helps women address moderate-to-severe menopausal symptoms. premarin worldwide revenues were relatively flat operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and decreased 3% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. revenues in the u.s. in the first nine months of 2015 were unfavorably impacted by prescription volume declines for premarin family oral brands and lower market growth, partially offset by price increases. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•norvasc (gep) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. norvasc worldwide revenues decreased 2% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 3% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, due to generic erosion, primarily in japan, partially offset by volume growth in emerging markets, primarily in china. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 9% in the third quarter of 2015, and 7% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•zyvox (gep) is among the world’s best-selling branded agents used to treat serious gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus-aureus. zyvox worldwide revenues decreased 43% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 23% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, due to generic competition in the u.s., beginning in the first half of 2015, and pricing pressures. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 8% in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•celebrex (gep), indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis worldwide and for the management of acute pain in adults in the u.s., japan and certain other markets, recorded a decrease in worldwide revenues of 69% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 67% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily driven by the loss of exclusivity and associated launch of multi-source generic competition in the u.s. in december 2014 and in most other developed markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 3% in both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.in the u.s., revenues decreased 90% in the third quarter of 2015, and 91% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, driven by the loss of exclusivity and launch of multi-source generic competition in the u.s. in december 2014. internationally, celebrex revenues decreased 25% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 20% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, driven by the loss of exclusivity and launch of multi-source generic competition in most developed markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 10% in the third quarter of 2015, and 8% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. •benefix and refacto af/xyntha (gip) are hemophilia products using state-of-the-art manufacturing that assist patients with their lifelong hemophilia bleeding disorders. benefix worldwide revenues increased 1% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014 primarily as a result of strong performance across europe, driven by increase of market share in key countries such as germany, italy, belgium and turkey and an extension of the factor ix contract period in the u.k. and ireland. this was partially offset by the erosion of market share in the u.s. due to the launch of competing new extended half-life treatment options. benefix worldwide revenues decreased 4% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily as a result of the erosion of market share in the u.s. due to the launch of competing new extended half-life treatment options. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 9% in the third quarter of 2015, and 8% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. refacto af/xyntha recorded a 7% operational decrease in worldwide revenues in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, largely due to price erosion in the u.k. and australia, erosion of market share in the u.s. due to the launch of competing new extended half-life treatment options and loss of the annual contract in iraq. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 12% in the third quarter of 2015, and 11% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. •chantix/champix (gip) is an aid to smoking-cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age and older. worldwide revenues increased 7% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 9% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 6% in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.in the u.s., chantix revenues increased 11% in the third quarter of 2015, and 10% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to two price increases and higher year-over-year demand driven by steadily improving coverage by insurers in response to the requirements of the affordable care act and direct-to-consumer advertising on tv, partially offset by intensified competition by over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies that utilize tv and retail channels. 66internationally, champix revenues increased 2% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 8% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to a significant tobacco tax increase in korea and strong growth across emerging markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 16% in the third quarter of 2015, and 14% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•pristiq (gep) is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder in the u.s. and in various other countries. pristiq has also been indicated for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms (vms) associated with menopause in thailand, mexico, the philippines and ecuador. pristiq recorded an increase in worldwide revenues of 9% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to price increases in the u.s. partially offset by decreased u.s. market share and the loss of exclusivity and launch of generic competition in australia. pristiq recorded a decrease in worldwide revenues of 1% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to decreased market share, partially offset by market price increases in the u.s. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 5% in the third quarter of 2015, and 3% the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•ibrance (o), indicated as a first-line treatment for certain forms of advanced breast cancer, was approved and launched in the u.s. in february 2015. ibrance recorded worldwide revenues of $230 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $408 million in the first nine months of 2015. •xalkori (o) is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) that is anaplastic lymphoma kinase (alk)-positive. xalkori worldwide revenues increased 18% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 23% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, as a result of an increase in diagnostic rates for the alk gene mutation, which has led to more patients being treated, and price increases in the u.s. foreign exchange had a 9% unfavorable impact in both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•xeljanz (gip) is approved for use as a second-line therapy for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (after traditional disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs) in more than 40 markets including the u.s., japan, australia, canada, switzerland and brazil. xeljanz recorded an increase in worldwide revenues of 53% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 74% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily in the u.s., driven by continued growth through rheumatologist acceptance and consumer awareness. foreign exchange had a 3% unfavorable impact in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•inlyta (o) is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (rcc) after failure of a prior systemic treatment. worldwide revenues increased 13% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 17% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to increased demand. revenues in the u.s. increased 5% in the third quarter of 2015, and 12% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to increased demand and price increases. international revenues increased 19% operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and 21% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to strong growth in developed and emerging markets in europe, where a large proportion of oncologists are prescribing inlyta. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 19% in the third quarter of 2015, and 18% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•alliance revenues (gep/gip) increased 59% operationally worldwide in the third quarter of 2015, and 37% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, mainly due to:◦an increase in eliquis alliance revenues through increased market share,partially offset by:◦the termination of the co-promotion collaboration for spiriva (gep) in most developed markets, which resulted in an elimination of pfizer’s share of spiriva revenues. this resulted in a decrease of approximately $19 million operationally in the third quarter of 2015, and $131 million operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.•eliquis (apixaban) (gip) is being jointly developed and commercialized by pfizer and bristol-myers squibb (bms). the two companies share commercialization expenses and profit/losses equally on a global basis. in april 2015, we signed an agreement with bms to transfer full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets to us, beginning in the third quarter of 2015. bms will supply the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant (noac) market; the agents in this class were developed as 67alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. eliquis (apixaban) is approved for multiple indications in major markets around the world:◦to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (nvaf);◦for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism (pe), and for the reduction in the risk of recurrent dvt and pe following initial therapy; and◦for the prophylaxis of dvt, which may lead to pe, in patients who have undergone hip or knee replacement surgery. the noac class penetration continues to expand across key markets. eliquis has become the most prescribed oral anticoagulant in new to brand prescriptions among cardiologists in the u.s., japan, and several other markets. eliquis share uptake with primary care physicians has also been strong, following the launch, in the fourth quarter of 2014, of the treatment indications for dvt and pe and reduction in the risk of recurrent dvt and pe.see the “our operating environment—intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights” section of our 2014 financial report for information regarding the expiration of various contract rights relating to spiriva, aricept, enbrel and rebif.see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12. commitments and contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above.product developments—biopharmaceuticalwe continue to invest in r&d to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development.we continue to strengthen our global r&d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules—immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars. with the acquisition of hospira, we have expanded our biosimilars pipeline and added r&d capabilities with sterile injectables and medical devices.a comprehensive update of pfizer’s development pipeline, including assets from the recently-completed hospira acquisition, was published on october 27, 2015 and is available at www.pfizer.com/pipeline. it includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for candidates from phase 2 through registration.the following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the fda and regulatory authorities in the eu and japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development.recent fda approvalsproductindicationdate approvedibrance (palbociclib)an oral and selective reversible inhibitor of the cdk 4 and 6 kinases in combination with letrozole for the treatment of postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive (er+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (her2-) advanced breast cancer as initial endocrine-based therapy for their metastatic diseasefebruary 2015trumenba (mnb rlp2086)a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b in individuals 10 through 25 years of ageoctober 201468pending u.s. new drug applications (nda) and supplemental filingsproductproposed indicationdate filed*tofacitinibqd mr (once-a-day) dosingjuly 2015alo-02 (oxycodone hci/ naltrexone/hci)a mu-type opioid receptor agonist for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequatefebruary 2015retacrit(a)a potential biosimilar to epogen® and procrit® (epotein alfa)february 2015xeljanz (tofacitinib)(b)treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasisfebruary 2015tafamidis meglumine(c)treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (ttr-fap)february 2012viviant (bazedoxifene)(d)osteoporosis treatment and preventionaugust 2006*the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the fda accepted our submissions.(a) epogen® is a registered u.s. trademark of amgen inc.; procrit® is a registered u.s. trademark of johnson & johnson. in october 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our biologics license application for retacrit, our proposed biosimilar to epoetin alfa, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. we will work with the fda to determine an appropriate path forward. (b) in october 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda with respect to our supplemental nda for xeljanz for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis. while we have yet to meet with the fda to discuss their concerns, we recognize that overcoming the issues raised may be difficult, especially in light of the evolving marketplace. we will consider our investment in the psoriasis indication for xeljanz following this discussion with the fda.(c) in may 2012, the fda’s peripheral and central nervous system drugs advisory committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. in june 2012, the fda issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis nda. the fda has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis nda. we continue to work with the fda to define a path forward.(d) ndas for viviant (bazedoxifene) for treatment and prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis remain pending before the fda. in february 2008, the fda advised it expected to convene an advisory committee pending responses to the “approvable letters” received in december 2007 and may 2008 with respect to the ndas. in view of the approval of duavee (conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifene), we continue to assess next steps for viviant.in june 2010, we received a “complete response” letter from the fda for the celebrex chronic pain supplemental nda that we had filed in october 2009. in september 2015, we submitted a request to withdraw the pending supplemental nda because the treatment landscape has evolved since the application was originally filed.regulatory approvals and filings in the eu and japanproductdescription of eventdate approveddate filed*effexor sr (venlafaxine hcl)approval in japan for treatment of depression/depressed stateseptember 2015—ibrance (palbociclib)application filed in the eu for palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (hr+/her2-) advanced or metastatic breast cancer, as well as for the treatment of recurrent advanced breast cancer —august 2015xeljanz (tofacitinib)application filed in japan for treatment of psoriasis vulgaris and psoriatic arthritis with inadequate response to existing therapies—march 2015eliquis (apixaban)(a)application filed in japan for treatment of venous thromboembolism—february 2015xalkori (crizotinib)(b)application filed in the eu for first line treatment of alk-positive non-small cell lung cancer—january 2015duavive (conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifene)approval in the eu for treatment of estrogen deficiency symptoms in postmenopausal women with a uterus (with at least 12 months since the last menses) for whom treatment with progestin-containing therapy is not appropriatedecember 2014—*for applications in the eu, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the european medicines agency (ema) validated our submissions.(a)this indication for eliquis (apixaban) was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bristol-myers squibb (bms).(b) in october 2015, the ema’s committee for medicinal products for human use (chmp) issued an opinion recommending that xalkori be granted approval for the first-line treatment of adults with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (alk) positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer.69late-stage clinical programs for additional uses and dosage formsfor in-line and in-registration productsproductproposed indicationbosulif (bosutinib)first-line treatment for patients with chronic phase philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with avillion groupinlyta (axitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupibrance (palbociclib)an oral and selective reversible inhibitor of the cdk 4 and 6 kinases for the treatment of recurrent advanced breast cancer (u.s.) and, in collaboration with the german breast group, high-risk early breast cancer, as well as patients with hormone receptor-positive (hr+) early breast cancer, in collaboration with the alliance foundation trials, llc, and the austrian breast colorectal cancer study group.lyrica (pregabalin)peripheral neuropathic pain; cr (once-a-day) dosingsutent (sunitinib)adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinomatofacitinibtreatment of psoriasis (ex-u.s.), ulcerative colitis, and psoriatic arthritisvyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine)adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathynew drug candidates in late-stage developmentcandidateproposed indicationavelumab (pf-06834635) (msb0010718c)a monoclonal antibody that inhibits pd-l1 for the first-line treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer, and treatment of stage iiib/iv non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with merck kgaa, germanybococizumaba monoclonal antibody that inhibits pcsk9 for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and prevention of cardiovascular eventsdacomitiniba pan-her tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with egfr activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with sfj pharmaceuticals groupertugliflozinan oral sglt2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with merck & co., inc.inotuzumab ozogamicinan antibody drug conjugate, consisting of an anti-cd22 monotherapy antibody linked to a cytotoxic agent, calicheamycin, for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemiapf-06836922a long-acting hgh-ctp for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency (ghd) in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with opko health, inc.pf-06438179(a)a potential biosimilar to remicade® (infliximab)pf-05280014(b)a potential biosimilar to herceptin® (trastuzumab)pf-05280586(c)a potential biosimilar to rituxan® (rituximab)pf-06439535(d)a potential biosimilar to avastin® (bevacizumab)pf-06410293(e)a potential biosimilar to humira® (adalimumab)rivipansel (gmi-1070)a pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from glycomimetics inc.tanezumab(f)an anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with eli lilly & companytrumenbaa prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroup b in individuals 10 through 25 years of age (ex-u.s.)(a) remicade® is a registered trademark of janssen biotech, inc. as a condition of approving the hospira transaction, the european commission is requiring divestiture of pfizer’s infliximab development program and certain european economic area (eea) rights. pfizer will retain certain rights to the product outside of the eea.(b) herceptin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(c) rituxan® is a registered trademark of biogen ma inc.(d) avastin® is a registered trademark of genentech, inc.(e) humira® is a registered trademark of abbvie biotechnology ltd.(f) in july 2015, we and our alliance partner, eli lilly & company, resumed the phase 3 clinical program for tanezumab, following a decision by the fda to lift the partial clinical hold on the development program after a review of nonclinical data characterizing the sympathetic nervous system response to tanezumab.70inflectra™in 2009, hospira entered into an agreement to develop and market certain biosimilar molecules with celltrion inc. and celltrion healthcare, co., ltd. (collectively, celltrion) including inflectra™ (infliximab) for patients with autoimmune diseases. in europe, inflectra has now launched in 36 markets. celltrion possesses the right to commercialize its infliximab product in the same european markets as hospira. we have exclusive commercialization rights from celltrion to their infliximab product in the u.s., canada and certain other territories. in august 2014, celltrion submitted a potential infliximab biosimilar for fda approval in the u.s., and in december 2014, hospira launched inflectra in canada. inflectra has also been approved in australia, new zealand and switzerland, and in brazil and mexico, where hospira will market it as remsima™.in september 2015, in order to eliminate certain redundancies in pfizer's biosimilar drug products pipeline created as a result of the acquisition of hospira, pfizer opted to return to celltrion rights that hospira had previously acquired to potential biosimilars to rituxan® (rituximab) and herceptin® (trastuzumab).additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. also, see the discussion in the “our business development initiatives” section of this md&a.costs and expensescost of sales  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changecost of sales $2,219 $2,368 (6) $6,238 $6,875 (9)as a percentage of revenues 18.4% 19.2%   17.9% 18.8%  cost of sales decreased 6% in the third quarter of 2015 and 9% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to:•favorable foreign exchange of 15% in the third quarter of 2015 and 13% in the first nine months of 2015; and, to a lesser extent•a decrease in royalty expense; and•manufacturing efficiencies, partially offset by:•an increase in sales volumes due to (i) the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations and the vaccine portfolio operations acquired from baxter in 2015, both of which are comprised of inventory measured at fair value on the acquisition date; and (ii) the net increase in sales volume of pfizer legacy products.the decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in the third quarter of 2015 and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, was primarily due to:•favorable foreign exchange; and, to a lesser extent•a decrease in royalty expenses; and•manufacturing efficiencies,partially offset by:•an unfavorable change in product mix due to (i) the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations and the vaccine portfolio operations acquired from baxter in 2015, both of which are comprised of inventory measured at fair value on the acquisition date; and (ii) the impact of losses of exclusivity. 71selling, informational and administrative (si&a) expenses  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changeselling, informational and administrative expenses $3,270 $3,556 (8) $9,761 $10,116 (4)as a percentage of revenues 27.1% 28.8%   28.0% 27.7%  si&a expenses decreased 8% in the third quarter of 2015 and 4% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to:•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 6% for both the third quarter of 2015 and the first nine months of 2015; •lower expenses associated with certain products that have recently lost marketing exclusivity;•lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; and•the non-recurrence of a $215 million charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs),partially offset by:•increased investments to support recently launched products and certain other in-line products; and to a much lesser extent•the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations. research and development (r&d) expenses  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changeresearch and development expenses $1,722 $1,802 (4) $5,342 $5,184 3as a percentage of revenues 14.2% 14.6%   15.3% 14.2% r&d expenses decreased 4% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to:•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%; •the non-recurrence of upfront payments associated with certain licensing agreements entered into during the third quarter of 2014; and•lower clinical trial expenses for various studies for certain previously approved products, including as a result of the completion of postmarketing commitments,largely offset by:•higher clinical trial expenses for pipeline programs, mainly for certain oncology and gip pipeline programs; and to a lesser extent•the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations.r&d expenses increased 3% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to:•the $295 million upfront payment to opko in the first quarter of 2015 associated with a worldwide development and commercialization agreement; and•increased investment in certain late-stage pipeline programs, primarily bococizumab, partially offset by:•lower clinical trial expenses for various studies for certain previously approved products, including as a result of the completion of postmarketing commitments;72•the non-recurrence of upfront payments associated with certain licensing agreements entered into during the first nine months of 2014; and•the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%.amortization of intangible assets  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changeamortization of intangible assets $937 $972 (4) $2,748 $3,090 (11)as a percentage of revenues 7.7% 7.9%   7.9% 8.5%  amortization of intangible assets decreased 4% in the third quarter of 2015 and 11% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives, partially offset by purchase accounting charges of approximately $57 million related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired from hospira. see also notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets.restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 %change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changerestructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs $581 $(19) * $727 $120 *total additional depreciation—asset restructuring 24 54 (56) 71 230 (69)total implementation costs 42 73 (42) 135 181 (25)costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives(a) $647 $108 * $933 $531 76(a) comprises restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in cost of sales, research and development expenses and/or selling, informational and administrative expenses, as appropriate.*calculation not meaningful.included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs are (i) restructuring charges of $469 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $555 million in the first nine months of 2015 for employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs largely associated with our acquisition of hospira; (ii) transaction costs, such as banking, legal, accounting and other similar services, directly related to our acquisition of hospira of $64 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $70 million in the first nine months of 2015; and (iii) integration costs, representing external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily including expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes of $48 million in the third quarter of 2015 and $102 million in the first nine months of 2015, primarily related to our acquisition of hospira. for information about costs associated with the acquisition of hospira and expected total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives.in connection with our acquisition of hospira, we are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. we expect to generate $800 million of annual cost synergies by 2018 in connection with the hospira acquisition. based on our past experience, the one-time costs to generate the synergies are expected to be approximately $1 billion, incurred for up to a three-year period post-acquisition.in early 2014, we announced that we would be incurring costs in 2014-2016 related to new programs: our new global commercial structure reorganization and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. we also have an ongoing manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiative underway. for information about these programs and expected total costs, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other 73costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives. the expected ongoing annual cost savings associated with the above-mentioned programs (but not including expected cost savings associated with the hospira acquisition), in the aggregate, are estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion by the end of 2016. the expected costs and cost savings in 2015 associated with these activities, as well as the hospira acquisition, are reflected in our financial guidance for 2015. see also the “our financial guidance for 2015” section of this md&a.in addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products.other (income)/deductions—net  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changeother (income)/deductions––net $661 $94 * $670 $665 1*calculation not meaningful.for information about the components of other (income)/deductions—net, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net.see also the “analysis of operating segment information” section of this md&a.provision for taxes on income  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % change september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changeprovision for taxes on income $567 $911 (38) $2,178 $2,575 (15)effective tax rate on continuing operations 21.0% 25.4%   23.4% 24.7%  for information about our effective tax rate and the events and circumstances contributing to the changes between periods, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.adjusted incomegeneral description of adjusted income measureadjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management, and we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. we report adjusted income, and certain components of adjusted income, in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, consumer healthcare (otc) products, and vaccines––prior to considering certain income statement elements. we have defined adjusted income as net income attributable to pfizer inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. also, see the “adjusted income––general description of adjusted income measure” section of our 2014 financial report for additional information. similarly, we have defined the adjusted income components as revenues, cost of sales, selling, informational and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of intangible assets and other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. the adjusted income measure and the adjusted income component measures are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for u.s. gaap net income or u.s. gaap net income components. the adjusted income measure is an important internal measurement for pfizer. we measure the performance of the overall company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. the following are examples of how the adjusted income measure is utilized:•senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an adjusted income basis;•our annual budgets are prepared on an adjusted income basis; and74•senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using this adjusted income measure. see the “adjusted income––general description of adjusted income measure” section of our 2014 financial report for additional information.despite the importance of this measure to management in goal setting and performance measurement, adjusted income is a non-gaap financial measure that has no standardized meaning prescribed by u.s. gaap and, therefore, has limits in its usefulness to investors. because of its non-standardized definition, adjusted income (unlike u.s. gaap net income) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. adjusted income is presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance.we also recognize that, as an internal measure of performance, the adjusted income measure has limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to this metric. a limitation of the adjusted income measure is that it provides a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and does not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. we also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. for example, our r&d organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. in addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a group of pharmaceutical industry peers (pre-2015) or a publicly traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans.see the accompanying reconciliations of certain gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information for the third quarter and first nine months of 2015 and 2014 below.purchase accounting adjustmentsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. these impacts, primarily associated with pharmacia corporation (acquired in 2003), wyeth (acquired in 2009), king pharmaceuticals, inc. (acquired in 2011) and hospira, inc. (hospira) (acquired in september 2015), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets, amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. therefore, the adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products.acquisition-related costsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. for additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. we have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies.discontinued operationsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. 75certain significant itemsadjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. certain significant items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their unusual nature. unusual, in this context, may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. while not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs for a program that is specific in nature with a defined term, such as those related to our global commercial structure reorganization, and our other non-acquisition-related cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under u.s. gaap; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings, included in part i, item 1 of this quarterly report on form 10-q. normal, ongoing defense costs of the company or settlements of and accruals on legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items.76reconciliation of gaap reported to non-gaap adjusted information––certain line items  three months ended september 27, 2015in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $12,087 $— $— $— $— $12,087cost of sales 2,219 (87) (12) — (13) 2,108selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,270 — — — 6 3,276research and development expenses 1,722 2 — — 1 1,725amortization of intangible assets 937 (904) — — — 33restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 581 — (529) — (52) —other (income)/deductions––net 661 28 — — (779) (90)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 2,697 960 541 — 837 5,035provision for taxes on income(b) 567 271 167 — 294 1,298income from continuing operations 2,130 689 374 — 543 3,736discontinued operations––net of tax 8 — — (8) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 9 — — — — 9net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,130 689 374 (8) 543 3,728earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.34 0.11 0.06 — 0.09 0.60  nine months ended september 27, 2015in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $34,804 $— $— $— $— $34,804cost of sales 6,238 (89) (37) — (73) 6,037selling, informational and administrative expenses 9,761 2 — — (37) 9,726research and development expenses 5,342 5 — — (12) 5,334amortization of intangible assets 2,748 (2,648) — — — 100restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 727 — (594) — (133) —other (income)/deductions––net 670 33 — — (1,113) (410)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 9,319 2,698 631 — 1,369 14,017provision for taxes on income(b) 2,178 770 191 — 406 3,545income from continuing operations 7,141 1,928 440 — 962 10,472discontinued operations––net of tax 14 — — (14) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 23 — — — — 23net income attributable to pfizer inc. 7,132 1,928 440 (14) 962 10,449earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 1.14 0.31 0.07 — 0.15 1.67see end of tables for notes (a) and (b).77  three months ended september 28, 2014in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $12,361 $— $— $— $(65) $12,296cost of sales 2,368 9 (13) — (120) 2,244selling, informational and administrative expenses 3,556 (3) — — (254) 3,299research and development expenses 1,802 (1) — — (13) 1,788amortization of intangible assets 972 (928) — — — 44restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (19) — (41) — 59 —other (income)/deductions––net 94 112 — — (286) (80)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 3,587 812 54 — 548 5,001provision for taxes on income(b) 911 255 19 — 155 1,340income from continuing operations 2,676 557 36 — 393 3,661discontinued operations––net of tax (3) — — 3 — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 6 — — — — 6net income attributable to pfizer inc. 2,666 557 36 3 393 3,655earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 0.42 0.09 0.01 — 0.06 0.57  nine months ended september 28, 2014in millions, except per common share data gaap reported purchase accounting adjustments(a) acquisition-related costs(a) discontinued operations(a) certain significant items(a) non-gaap adjustedrevenues $36,487 $— $— $— $(193) $36,294cost of sales 6,875 92 (36) — (381) 6,550selling, informational and administrative expenses 10,116 1 — — (312) 9,804research and development expenses 5,184 (1) — — (70) 5,114amortization of intangible assets 3,090 (2,965) — — — 125restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 120 — (96) — (25) —other (income)/deductions––net 665 105 — — (1,208) (437)income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 10,437 2,768 131 — 1,803 15,139provision for taxes on income(b) 2,575 797 76 — 578 4,026income from continuing operations 7,862 1,970 55 — 1,225 11,113discontinued operations––net of tax 70 — — (70) — —net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 25 — — — — 25net income attributable to pfizer inc. 7,907 1,970 55 (70) 1,225 11,088earnings per common share attributable to pfizer inc.––diluted 1.23 0.31 0.01 (0.01) 0.19 1.72(a) for details of adjustments, see “details of income statement items excluded from adjusted income” below.(b) the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 25.8% in the third quarter of 2015, compared with 26.8% in the third quarter of 2014. this decline was primarily due to an increase in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years with various foreign tax authorities and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, partially offset by an unfavorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business. the effective tax rate on non-gaap adjusted income was 25.3% in the first nine months of 2015, compared with 26.6% in the first nine months of 2014. this decline was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by a decline in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years, primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations.78details of income statement items excluded from adjusted incomeadjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items:  three months ended nine months ended(millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014purchase accounting adjustments        amortization, depreciation and other(a) $873 $821 $2,609 $2,859cost of sales 87 (9) 89 (92)total purchase accounting adjustments––pre-tax 960 812 2,698 2,768income taxes(b) (271) (255) (770) (797)total purchase accounting adjustments––net of tax 689 557 1,928 1,970acquisition-related costs        restructuring charges(c) 417 22 422 43transaction costs(c) 64 — 70 —pre-integration/integration costs(c) 48 19 102 53additional depreciation––asset restructuring(d) 12 13 37 36total acquisition-related costs––pre-tax 541 54 631 131income taxes(e) (167) (19) (191) (76)total acquisition-related costs––net of tax 374 36 440 55discontinued operations        total discontinued operations––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc.(f) (8) 3 (14) (70)certain significant items        restructuring charges(g) 52 (59) 133 25implementation costs and additional depreciation––asset restructuring(h) 55 113 169 375additional year of branded prescription drug fee(i) — 215 — 215certain legal matters, net(j) — 28 92 726certain asset impairments(j) 633 242 633 356business and legal entity alignment costs(k) 60 47 224 114other(l) 36 (37) 117 (9)total certain significant items––pre-tax 837 548 1,369 1,803income taxes(m) (294) (155) (406) (578)total certain significant items––net of tax 543 393 962 1,225total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items––net of tax, attributable to pfizer inc. $1,598 $988 $3,317 $3,181(a) included primarily in amortization of intangible assets.(b) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. (c) included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. transaction costs represent external costs directly related to the acquisition of hospira and primarily include expenditures for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. in 2015, restructuring charges, transaction costs and integration costs primarily relate to our acquisition of hospira on september 3, 2015. all of these costs and charges are included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs.(d) represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions. included in cost of sales for both the three months and nine months ended september 27, 2015 and september 28, 2014.(e) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the nine months ended september 28, 2014 also includes the favorable impact of the remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities resulting from plant network restructuring activities.(f) included in discontinued operations––net of tax. for the nine months ended september 28, 2014, represents post-close adjustments.(g) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions. included in restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). 79(h) amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives). for the three months ended september 27, 2015, virtually all included in cost of sales ($34 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($16 million) and research and development expenses ($3 million). for the three months ended september 28, 2014, included in cost of sales ($63 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($37 million) and research and development expenses ($13 million). for the nine months ended september 27, 2015, virtually all included in cost of sales ($95 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($55 million) and research and development expenses ($16 million). for the nine months ended september 28, 2014, included in cost of sales ($215 million), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($90 million) and research and development expenses ($70 million).(i) included in selling, informational and administrative expenses. represents a charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs).(j) included in other (income)/deductions—net (see the “other (income)/deductions—net” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions—net).(k) included in other (income)/deductions––net. represents expenses for planning and implementing changes to align our operations and reporting for our business segments established in 2014.(l) for the three months ended september 27, 2015, included in cost of sales ($21 million income), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($22 million income), research and development expenses ($4 million income) and other (income)/deductions––net ($84 million). for the nine months ended september 27, 2015, included in cost of sales ($21 million income), selling, informational and administrative expenses ($19 million income), research and development expenses ($4 million income) and other (income)/deductions––net ($161 million). for 2014, includes, among other things, income associated with the transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis inc. that are included in revenues ($65 million) and cost of sales ($57 million) for the three months ended september 28, 2014 and primarily in revenues ($193 million) and cost of sales ($167 million) for the nine months ended september 28, 2014. virtually all other items are included in other (income)/deductions––net for the three months and nine months ended september 28, 2014. (m) included in provision for taxes on income. income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. the third quarter and first nine months of 2014 were unfavorably impacted by a non-tax deductible charge to account for an additional year of the branded prescription drug fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the irs.analysis of operating segment informationthe following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our three operating segments—the global innovative pharmaceutical segment (gip); the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment (voc); and the global established pharmaceutical segment (gep). for additional information about each operating segment, see the “our strategy––commercial operations” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 13. segment, geographic and other revenue information, as well as the “selected balance sheet information by operating segment” section of the md&a in our form 10-q for the quarter ended march 29, 2015.the following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our condensed consolidated statements of income:  three months ended september 27, 2015(millions of dollars) gip(a) voc(a) total innovative products(b) established products (gep)(a) other(c) non-gaapadjusted(d) reconciling items(e) gaap reportedrevenues $3,521 $3,231 $6,752 $5,219 $116 $12,087 $— $12,087cost of sales 378 497 876 1,062 171 2,108 111 2,219selling, informational and administrative expenses 820 705 1,524 799 954 3,276 (7) 3,270research and development expenses 405 230 635 173 917 1,725 (3) 1,722amortization of intangible assets 11 12 23 10 — 33 904 937restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — — 581 581other (income)/deductions––net (240) (8) (247) (55) 212 (90) 751 661income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $2,146 $1,796 $3,942 $3,230 $(2,138) $5,035 $(2,337) $2,69780  nine months ended september 27, 2015(millions of dollars) gip(a) voc(a) total innovative products(b) established products (gep)(a) other(c) non-gaapadjusted(d) reconciling items(e) gaap reportedrevenues $10,093 $9,028 $19,120 $15,323 $360 $34,804 $— $34,804cost of sales 1,106 1,473 2,579 2,921 538 6,037 200 6,238selling, informational and administrative expenses 2,548 1,998 4,546 2,343 2,837 9,726 35 9,761research and development expenses 1,469 627 2,096 459 2,779 5,334 7 5,342amortization of intangible assets 34 35 70 30 — 100 2,648 2,748restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — — 727 727other (income)/deductions––net (734) (45) (778) (92) 461 (410) 1,080 670income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $5,669 $4,939 $10,608 $9,664 $(6,255) $14,017 $(4,698) $9,319  three months ended september 28, 2014(millions of dollars) gip(a) voc(a) total innovative products(b) established products (gep)(a) other(c) non-gaapadjusted(d) reconciling items(e) gaap reportedrevenues $3,490 $2,511 $6,001 $6,239 $56 $12,296 $65 $12,361cost of sales 485 475 960 1,137 148 2,244 124 2,368selling, informational and administrative expenses 835 602 1,436 982 881 3,299 257 3,556research and development expenses 386 200 585 166 1,037 1,788 14 1,802amortization of intangible assets 11 7 18 25 1 44 928 972restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — — (18) (19)other (income)/deductions––net (289) (6) (295) (64) 279 (80) 174 94income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $2,063 $1,235 $3,298 $3,993 $(2,290) $5,001 $(1,414) $3,587  nine months ended september 28, 2014(millions of dollars) gip(a) voc(a) total innovative products(b) established products (gep)(a) other(c) non-gaapadjusted(d) reconciling items(e) gaap reportedrevenues $10,114 $7,264 $17,377 $18,742 $175 $36,294 $193 $36,487cost of sales 1,375 1,402 2,777 3,331 442 6,550 325 6,875selling, informational and administrative expenses 2,529 1,789 4,318 2,846 2,640 9,804 311 10,116research and development expenses 1,152 635 1,787 455 2,872 5,114 70 5,184amortization of intangible assets 34 16 50 75 — 125 2,965 3,090restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — — 120 120other (income)/deductions––net (814) (26) (839) (184) 586 (437) 1,102 665income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $5,838 $3,447 $9,285 $12,219 $(6,365) $15,139 $(4,702) $10,437(a) amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. the expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. (b) total innovative products represents the sum of the gip and voc segments.81(c) other comprises the revenues and costs included in our adjusted income components (see footnote (d) below) that are managed outside our three operating segments and includes the following:  three months ended september 27, 2015  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii), (vi) medical(iii), (vi) corporate(iv), (vi) other unallocated(v), (vi) totalrevenues $116 $— $— $— $— $116cost of sales 97 — — 29 44 171selling, informational and administrative expenses 3 — 34 905 11 954research and development expenses 1 680 7 223 6 917amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net 1 (15) — 219 8 212income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $15 $(665) $(41) $(1,376) $(70) $(2,138)  nine months ended september 27, 2015  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii), (vi) medical(iii), (vi) corporate(iv), (vi) other unallocated(v), (vi) totalrevenues $360 $— $— $— $— $360cost of sales 283 — — 77 178 538selling, informational and administrative expenses 10 — 88 2,712 28 2,837research and development expenses 2 2,057 20 683 18 2,779amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net — (59) — 476 44 461income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $66 $(1,998) $(108) $(3,949) $(268) $(6,255)  three months ended september 28, 2014  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii), (vi) medical(iii), (vi) corporate(iv), (vi) other unallocated(v), (vi) totalrevenues $56 $— $— $— $— $56cost of sales 38 — — 20 90 148selling, informational and administrative expenses 3 — 37 830 11 881research and development expenses 1 826 5 206 (1) 1,037amortization of intangible assets — — — — 1 1restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net — (22) — 253 48 279income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $14 $(804) $(42) $(1,308) $(149) $(2,290)82  nine months ended september 28, 2014  other business activities    (millions of dollars) pcs(i) wrd(ii), (vi) medical(iii), (vi) corporate(iv), (vi) other unallocated(v), (vi) totalrevenues $175 $— $— $— $— $175cost of sales 115 — — 70 257 442selling, informational and administrative expenses 10 — 89 2,513 28 2,640research and development expenses 2 2,208 19 631 12 2,872amortization of intangible assets — — — — — —restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs — — — — — —other (income)/deductions––net — (56) — 579 63 586income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income $48 $(2,152) $(108) $(3,794) $(359) $(6,365)(i) pcs—the revenues and costs of pfizer centresource (pcs), our contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales operation. in the third quarter and first nine months of 2015, pcs also includes revenues and expenses related to our transitional manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis inc. (ii) wrd—the research and development expenses managed by our worldwide research and development (wrd) organization , which is generally responsible for research projects until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the appropriate operating segment for possible clinical and commercial development. this organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities.(iii) medical—the costs associated with our pfizer medical organization (medical), which is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, partnerships with global public health and medical associations, regulatory inspection readiness reviews, internal audits of pfizer-sponsored clinical trials and internal regulatory compliance processes.(iv) corporate—the costs associated with corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance, and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments.(v) other unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations not directly attributable to an operating segment.(vi) see the “analysis of operating segment information” section of pfizer’s 2014 financial report for certain qualitative information about our other costs. this information will be provided on an annual basis.(d) see the “adjusted income” section of this md&a for a definition of these “adjusted income” components.(e) includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. for additional information about these reconciling items and/or our non-gaap adjusted measure of performance, see the “adjusted income” section of this md&a.global innovative pharmaceutical operating segment•revenues increased 1% in the third quarter of 2015 and were relatively flat in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 10% on gip revenues in the third quarter of 2015, and 9% on gip revenues in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. revenues increased by 10% operationally in the third quarter of 2015 and increased by 8% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to the following operational factors:◦strong operational performance of eliquis globally, lyrica, primarily in the u.s. and japan, as well as xeljanz and viagra, both primarily in the u.s., and enbrel in international markets (with respect to the third quarter of 2015) (collectively, up approximately $430 million for the third quarter of 2015 and $1.1 billion for the first nine months of 2015),partially offset by:◦a decline in rapamune revenues in the u.s. due to generic competition which began in october 2014 (down approximately $50 million for the third quarter of 2015 and $110 million for the first nine months of 2015).83total gip revenues from emerging markets were $398 million in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $400 million in the third quarter of 2014 and were $1.1 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $1.2 billion in the first nine months of 2014.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 3.1 percentage points in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by a decrease in royalty expense, favorable foreign exchange, and an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 2.6 percentage points in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange, a decrease in royalty expense and an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. the decrease in cost of sales of 22% in the third quarter of 2015, and 20% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, was primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in royalty expense.•the decrease in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 2% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflects favorable foreign exchange and reduced investment in certain in-line products, largely offset by additional investment in recently launched products and certain other in-line products. the slight increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses of less than 1% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflects additional investment in recently launched products and certain in-line products, largely offset by favorable foreign exchange and reduced investment in certain other in-line products. •the increase in research and development expenses of 5% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflects increased investment in certain late-stage pipeline programs, primarily bococizumab and tanezumab, partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses for various studies for certain previously approved products. the increase in research and development expenses of 28% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflects the $295 million upfront payment to opko health, inc. made in the first quarter of 2015 and increased investment in certain late-stage pipeline programs, primarily bococizumab, partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses for various studies for certain previously approved products.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in both the third quarter of 2015 and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily reflects a decrease in royalty-related income, partially offset by an increase in our equity income from certain equity-method investments.global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare operating segmentglobal vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare revenues  third quarternine months(millions of dollars)     % change     % changeglobal vaccines $1,629 $1,140 43% $4,536 $3,161 43 %consumer healthcare 817 821 — 2,465 2,494 (1)%global oncology 786 551 43% 2,026 1,609 26 %total voc $3,231 $2,511 29% $9,028 $7,264 24 %•revenues increased 29% in the third quarter of 2015, and increased 24% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, which includes an increase in revenues of 37% operationally in the third quarter of 2015 and 32% operationally in the first nine months of 2015.◦global vaccines revenues increased 43% to $1.6 billion in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $1.1 billion in the same period in 2014, and increased 43% to $4.5 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $3.2 billion in the same period in 2014, reflecting an operational increase in revenues of 50% in the third quarter of 2015 and 51% in the first nine months of 2015. the increases were primarily due to an increase of 77% in the third quarter of 2015 and 81% in the first nine months of 2015 in prevnar family revenue in the u.s., primarily driven by continued strong uptake of prevnar 13 among adults following the positive recommendation from acip for use in adults aged 65 and older in the third quarter of 2014, as well as the success of commercial programs and increased demand in preparation for the upcoming flu season. international revenues increased 19% operationally in the third quarter of 2015 and 22% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, driven by the prevenar family, which grew 10% operationally in the third quarter of 2015 and 11% operationally in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily reflecting increased volume in emerging markets. in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, volume was favorably impacted by prevenar’s inclusion in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets and increased shipments associated with gavi, the vaccine alliance, as well as the inclusion in the 84third quarter and first nine months of 2015 of revenues associated with the acquisition of baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in europe.foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 7% on global vaccines revenues in both the third quarter of 2015 and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.total vaccines revenues from emerging markets were $273 million in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $255 million in the third quarter of 2014, and $869 million in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $758 million in the first nine months of 2014.◦global oncology revenues increased 43% to $786 million in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $551 million in the same period in 2014, and increased 26% to $2.0 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $1.6 billion in the same period in 2014, reflecting an operational increase in revenues of 54% in the third quarter of 2015 and 36% in the first nine months of 2015, primarily driven by continued strong momentum following the february 2015 u.s. launch of ibrance for advanced breast cancer and, to a lesser extent, stronger demand for sutent, xalkori and inlyta in most markets. foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 11% on global oncology revenues in the third quarter of 2015, and 10% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014. total oncology revenues from emerging markets were $102 million in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $91 million in the third quarter of 2014, and $289 million in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $269 million in the first nine months of 2014.◦consumer healthcare revenues were relatively flat at $817 million in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $821 million in the same period in 2014, reflecting an operational increase in revenues of 7% in the third quarter of 2015, primarily due to performance of nexium 24hr in the u.s. driven by increased demand and lower revenues in the third quarter of 2014 as retailers reduced initial stocking levels following the may 2014 launch. revenues decreased 1% to $2.5 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflecting an operational increase in revenues of 5% in the first nine months of 2015, primarily due to the launch of nexium 24hr in the u.s. in late-may 2014, as well as increased demand for key brands such as advil, and growth in certain emerging markets.foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 7% on consumer healthcare revenues in the third quarter of 2015, and an unfavorable impact of 6% on consumer healthcare revenues in the first nine months of 2015. total consumer healthcare revenues from emerging markets were $212 million in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $230 million in the third quarter of 2014, and were $696 million in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $692 million in the first nine months of 2014.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 3.5 percentage points in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by manufacturing efficiencies, a favorable change in product mix and favorable foreign exchange. cost of sales as a percentage of revenues decreased 3.0 percentage points in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange, manufacturing efficiencies and a favorable change in product mix. the increase in cost of sales of 5% in both the third quarter of 2015 and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, was primarily due to an increase in sales volumes, driven primarily by continued strong uptake of prevnar 13 among adults, largely offset by favorable foreign exchange and manufacturing efficiencies. •selling, informational and administrative expenses increased 17% in the third quarter of 2015, and increased 12% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, primarily due to higher promotional expenses in the u.s., primarily for prevnar 13 in adults, ibrance and newly launched consumer healthcare product line extensions, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange.•research and development expenses increased 15% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflecting increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our anti-pd-l1 alliance with merck kgaa, partially offset by lower clinical trial spend for certain vaccine programs. research and development expenses decreased 1% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflecting lower clinical trial spend for trumenba, prevnar 13 adult and certain oncology products, largely offset by increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our anti-pd-l1 alliance with merck kgaa.global established pharmaceutical operating segment•revenues decreased 16%, to $5.2 billion in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $6.2 billion in the same period in 2014, and decreased 18% to $15.3 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $18.7 billion in the same period in 2014, 85which includes an operational decrease in revenues of 8% in the third quarter of 2015 and 11% in the first nine months of 2015, primarily due to the following operational factors:◦the loss of exclusivity and associated launch of multi-source generic competition for celebrex in the u.s. in december 2014, for zyvox in the u.s. beginning in the first half of 2015 and for lyrica in certain developed europe markets beginning in the first quarter of 2015 (collectively, down by approximately $750 million for the third quarter of 2015 and $1.8 billion for the first nine months of 2015);◦a decline in lipitor revenues in developed markets as a result of continued generic competition (down approximately $10 million for the third quarter of 2015 and $140 million for the first nine months of 2015); and◦the termination in most countries of the co-promotion collaboration for spiriva, including in the u.s. (where the collaboration expired in april 2014), which has resulted in a decline in pfizer’s share of spiriva revenues (down approximately $10 million for the third quarter of 2015 and $110 million for the first nine months of 2015), partially offset by:◦the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations, which contributed $330 million; and ◦growth in emerging markets, where revenues increased 1% operationally for the third quarter of 2015 and 4% operationally for the first nine months of 2015 (up by approximately $20 million for the third quarter of 2015 and $240 million for the first nine months of 2015). foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 8% on gep revenues in both the third quarter of 2015, and in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014.total gep revenues from emerging markets were $1.7 billion in the third quarter of 2015, compared to $1.9 billion in the third quarter of 2014, and $5.2 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $5.4 billion in the first nine months of 2014.•cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 2.1 percentage points in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to the impact of losses of exclusivity and the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations, resulting in an unfavorable change in product mix, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange. cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 1.3 percentage points in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to the impact of losses of exclusivity and, to a lesser extent, the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations, resulting in an unfavorable change in product mix, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange. the decrease in cost of sales of 7% in the third quarter of 2015 and 12% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same periods in 2014, was primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange and lower volumes as a result of products losing exclusivity, partially offset by the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations. •selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 19% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses associated with certain products that have recently lost exclusivity and the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, as well as favorable foreign exchange, partially offset by the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations. the decrease in selling, informational and administrative expenses of 18% in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily due to lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses associated with certain products that have recently lost exclusivity and the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, as well as favorable foreign exchange, partially offset by a higher cost for the u.s. branded prescription drug fee compared to the prior year and the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations.•research and development expenses increased 5% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflecting increased investment in biosimilar development programs and the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations, largely offset by lower clinical trial expenses related to postmarketing commitments, primarily for celebrex and pristiq. the slight increase in research and development expenses for the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, reflects increased investment in biosimilar development programs, and sterile injectable development programs acquired as part of our acquisition of innopharma, inc., as well as the inclusion of one month of legacy hospira u.s. operations, largely offset by lower clinical trial expenses related to postmarketing commitments, primarily for celebrex and pristiq.•the unfavorable change in other (income)/deductions––net in the first nine months of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily reflects the non-recurrence of prior year gains on the sale of product rights as well as a decrease in our equity income from our equity-method investment in china.86analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive incomechanges in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss for the third quarter and first nine months of 2015 reflect the following:•for foreign currency translation adjustments, net, for the third quarter of 2015, reflects primarily the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the canadian dollar, australian dollar and brazilian real, partially offset by the strengthening of the euro against the u.s. dollar; for the nine months of 2015, reflects primarily the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, brazilian real, canadian dollar, australian dollar, mexican peso and japanese yen. also, for the first nine months of 2014, includes the reclassification, into income, of amounts associated with legal entity dispositions.•for unrealized holding losses on derivative financial instruments, net and unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of realized amounts into income. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.•for benefit plans: actuarial gains/(losses), net, primarily reflects the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in other comprehensive income and (ii) settlement activity, as well as the impact of foreign exchange. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for benefit plans: prior service credits and other, net, for the first nine months of 2015, reflects a $507 million reduction in our u.s. postretirement plan obligation due to a plan amendment approved in june 2015 that introduced a cap on costs for certain groups within the plan, partially offset by the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) amortization of changes in prior service costs and credits previously recognized in other comprehensive income and (ii) curtailment activity. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheetsfor information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a, the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources” section of this md&a and notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 7. financial instruments.for information about certain balances in trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, see also the “analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources: selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a.for information about events and circumstances impacting our tax related accounts, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 5. tax matters.the changes in our asset and liability accounts as of september 27, 2015, compared to december 31, 2014, generally reflect, among other things, the impact of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the acquisition of hospira (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions), and decreases due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the following explanations exclude the impact of the acquisition of hospira and foreign exchange.•for trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change also reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business.•for inventories, the change reflects inventory acquired as part of the acquisition of baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines, recorded at acquisition date fair value as well as inventory builds in the normal course of business, partially offset by planned inventory reductions.•for other current assets, the change also reflects the decrease in the receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments as well as the timing of receipts and payments in the normal course of business. •for property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation (pp&e), the change reflects depreciation during the period offset by capital additions in the normal course of business.87•for identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, the change reflects amortization and to a lesser extent impairments, partially offset by identifiable intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines. for additional information about our intangible assets, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 9a. identifiable intangible assets and goodwill: identifiable intangible assets. •for trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business.•for other current liabilities, the change reflects payments of certain legal claims, as well as the timing of other payments and accruals in the normal course of business, partially offset by an increase in the payables associated with our derivative financial instruments.•for pension benefit obligations, net and postretirement benefit obligations, net, the change reflects, among other things, a $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in january 2015 and a $507 million reduction in our u.s. postretirement plan obligation due to a plan amendment approved in june 2015 that introduced a cap on costs for certain groups within the plan, partially offset by a re-measurement of obligations acquired as part of the acquisition of hospira. for additional information about the net periodic pension cost, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans.•for other noncurrent liabilities, the change reflects an increase in the payables associated with our derivative financial instruments and, to a lesser extent, the deferral of an upfront payment received from eli lilly & company as part of a collaborative arrangement, partially offset by other payments and changes in accruals in the normal course of business.•for accumulated other comprehensive loss, the change primarily reflects foreign currency translation adjustments for the first nine months of 2015. for additional information see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income” section of this md&a.analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows  nine months ended  (millions of dollars) september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 % changecash provided by/(used in):      operating activities $9,799 $11,485 (15)investing activities (756) (4,140) (82)financing activities (9,124) (7,060) 29effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (162) (30) *net increase in cash and cash equivalents $(244) $255 **calculation not meaningful.in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.operating activitiesour net cash provided by operating activities was $9.8 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $11.5 billion in the same period of 2014. the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the change in operating earnings as well as a $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in january 2015 and the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, including higher payments related to certain liabilities associated with legal matters.88in the first nine months of 2015 and 2014, the line item other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities. for the first nine months of 2015, this line item also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain liabilities associated with legal matters accrued in prior periods, including neurontin-related matters, partially offset by the deferral of an upfront payment received from eli lilly & company as part of a collaborative arrangement. for additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: accounts receivable” section of this md&a. for additional information about our legal accruals, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 4. other (income)/deductions-net.investing activitiesour net cash used in investing activities was $756 million in the first nine months of 2015, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $4.1 billion in the same period in 2014. the decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to:•net redemptions of investments of $16.1 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to net purchases of investments of $3.1 billion in the first nine months of 2014,partially offset by:•cash paid of $15.6 billion, net of cash acquired, for the acquisition of hospira (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions); and•cash paid of $679 million, net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in the first nine months of 2015 (see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions).financing activitiesour net cash used in financing activities was $9.1 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $7.1 billion in the same period in 2014. the increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to:•purchases of common stock of $6.2 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $3.8 billion in the first nine months of 2014, partially offset by:•proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1.2 billion in the first nine months of 2015, compared to $704 million in the first nine months of 2014.analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resourceswe rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include:•the working capital requirements of our operations, including our research and development activities;•investments in our business;•dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate;•share repurchases;•the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives;•paying down outstanding debt;•contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and•business-development activities.our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both standard & poor’s (s&p) and moody’s investors service (moody’s). see the “credit ratings” section below. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. we have taken and 89will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified and available-for-sale debt securities.selected measures of liquidity and capital resourcesthe following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources:(millions of dollars, except ratios and per common share data) september 27, 2015 december 31, 2014selected financial assets:    cash and cash equivalents(a) $3,099 $3,343short-term investments(a) 17,559 32,779long-term investments(a) 16,233 17,518  36,891 53,640debt:    short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 9,818 5,141long-term debt 29,079 31,541  38,897 36,682net financial assets/(liabilities)(b) $(2,007) $16,958     working capital(c) $17,156 $36,071ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.62:1 2.67:1total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity per common share(d) $10.83 $11.33(a) see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 7. financial instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of the credit risk related to our financial instruments held.(b) net financial assets decreased as net cash provided by operating activities decreased, and cash paid for the hospira acquisition, dividend payments and share purchases, among other things, more than offset the redemptions/sales net of purchases of investments and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. for additional information, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” section of this md&a.(c)  the decrease in working capital is due to the acquisition of hospira, as well as the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business. for additional information on the acquisition of hospira, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and cost-method investment: acquisitions.(d) represents total pfizer inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock).for additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “analysis of the condensed consolidated balance sheets” and “analysis of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows” sections of this md&a.domestic and international short-term fundsmany of our operations are conducted outside the u.s., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. we generally hold up to $10 billion of these short-term funds in u.s. tax jurisdictions. the amount of funds held in u.s. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. as part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). repatriation of overseas funds can result in additional u.s. federal, state and local income tax payments. we record u.s. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s., no accrual for u.s. taxes is provided.accounts receivablewe continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several european markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. historically, payments from a number of these european governments and government agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. specifically, we have received limited payments in 2015 from the greek government on outstanding receivables, the vast majority of such receivables pertain to 2015 revenues. also, the greek government has recently restructured its debt to other third parties. accordingly, we have adjusted our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect these events, and have $53 million in net receivables as of september 27, 2015. reported revenues from greece for the nine months ended september 27, 2015 were $163 million. 90we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments).as of september 27, 2015, we had about $786 million in aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in italy, spain, greece and portugal where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $65 million, were as follows: $38 million in italy; $15 million in portugal; $9 million in greece; and $3 million in spain.although certain european governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs.we will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts.our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. for information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see notes to consolidated financial statements––note 1c. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: estimates and assumptions included in our 2014 financial report.credit ratingstwo major corporate debt-rating organizations, moody’s and s&p, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.the following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured non-credit-enhanced long-term debt:name of rating agency pfizer commercial paper  pfizerlong-term debt date of last rating change rating ratingoutlook moody’s p-1 a1stable october 2009s&p a-1+ aastable october 2009debt capacitywe have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. we maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. as of september 27, 2015, we had access to $8.1 billion of lines of credit, of which $691 million expire within one year. of these lines of credit, $7.9 billion are unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request. also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2019, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings.in october 2015, pfizer exchanged $1.7 billion debt of its recently acquired subsidiary hospira debt for virtually the same amount of pfizer inc. debt with the same interest rate and maturity terms as the hospira debt, leaving a minor amount of outstanding debt in hospira’s name. in connection with the exchange offers, the indenture governing the hospira notes and the hospira notes were amended to, among other things, eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants. the net income effect of this exchange was immaterial.global economic conditions––generalthe global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. 91global economic conditions––venezuela operations our venezuela operations continue to operate with the u.s. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 of venezuelan currency to the u.s. dollar. we incurred a foreign currency loss of $80 million immediately on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local balance sheets.in the second quarter of 2015, the venezuelan government identified three official rates of exchange. these are the cencoex rate of 6.3; the sicad rate of 13.5 (as of october 2015); and the simadi rate of about 200 (as of october 2015). we continue to use the cencoex rate of 6.3 to report our venezuela financial position, results of operations and cash flows, since we believe that the nature of our business operations in venezuela (the importation, manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products and, to a lesser extent, consumer healthcare goods) would qualify for the most preferential rates permitted by law. further, the venezuelan government has indicated that essential goods, including medicines, will remain at the official rate of 6.3.while we believe it is appropriate to continue to use the official rate of 6.3 for remeasurement purposes, we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the venezuelan currency or whether our use of the 6.3 rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. further, other potential actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. due to the uncertainty of the effect of recent changes in the venezuelan economy and a slowing of actual conversions of venezuelan currency to u.s. dollars, we have made changes in our venezuelan operations and are evaluating other potential changes. our actions could result in decreased sales from our venezuelan operations in the future. we expect to incur a restructuring charge of $36 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 related to the reduction of 36% of our labor force in venezuela. as of september 27, 2015, our net monetary assets in venezuela that are subject to revaluation totaled approximately $778 million (remeasured at the 6.3 rate). our revenues from venezuela totaled approximately $181 million for the third quarter of 2015 and $589 million for the first nine months of 2015 (converted using the 6.3 rate). off-balance sheet arrangementsin the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. these indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. if the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. these indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of september 27, 2015, recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications are not significant.certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products.share-purchase plans and accelerated share repurchase agreementon june 27, 2013, we announced that the board of directors had authorized a $10 billion share-purchase plan, which was exhausted in the first quarter of 2015. on october 23, 2014, we announced that the board of directors had authorized an additional $11 billion share-purchase plan, and share purchases commenced thereunder in january 2015. 92on february 9, 2015, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with goldman, sachs & co. (gs&co.) to repurchase shares of our common stock. this agreement was entered into under our previously announced share repurchase authorization. this agreement was completed in july 2015, and pursuant to the agreement’s settlement terms, we elected to settle the agreement in cash and paid an additional $160 million to gs&co. on july 13, 2015, resulting in a total of approximately $5.2 billion paid to gs&co. the final average price paid for the shares delivered under the accelerated share repurchase agreement was $34.13 per share. for additional information, see notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12. commitments and contingencies.the following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share-purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreement:  three months ended nine months ended(shares in millions, dollars in billions) september 27,2015(a) september 28,2014 september 27,2015(b) september 28,2014shares of common stock purchased — 43 182 125cost of purchase $0.2 $1.3 $6.2 $3.8(a) represents $160 million paid to gs&co. in july 2015 to settle the accelerated share repurchase agreement pursuant to the agreement's settlement terms.(b) includes approximately 151 million shares purchased for $5.2 billion pursuant to the accelerated share repurchase agreement.after giving effect to the accelerated share repurchase agreement, as well as other share repurchases to date in 2015, our remaining share-purchase authorization is approximately $5.4 billion. we do not currently expect to repurchase additional shares this year.dividends on common stockin september 2015, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.28 per share, payable december 1, 2015, to shareholders of record at the close of business on november 6, 2015.93new accounting standardsrecently adopted accounting standardssee notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standard.recently issued accounting standards, not adopted as of september 27, 2015the following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: standard description effective date  effect on the financial statements or other significant matters       in november 2014, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued amended guidance related to accounting for hybrid financial instruments issued or held as investments. the new guidance clarifies that for hybrid financial instruments in the form of stock, the assessment of whether the embedded derivative is clearly and closely related to the host instrument must consider the economic characteristics and risks of the entire hybrid financial instrument, including the embedded derivative feature that is being evaluated for separate accounting from the host contract.  january 1, 2016 we do not expect that the provisions of this new standard will have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in august 2014, the fasb issued amended guidance related to disclosure of uncertainties about the ability of an entity to continue as a going concern. the new guidance requires management of all entities to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern and, as necessary, to provide related footnote disclosures. december 31, 2016 we do not expect that the provisions of this new standard will have any impact on our consolidated financial statements.in may 2014, the fasb issued amended guidance related to revenue from contracts with customers. in august 2014, the fasb issued updated guidance deferring the effective date of the revenue recognition standard. the new guidance introduces a new principles-based framework for revenue recognition and disclosure. january 1, 2018. early adoption is not permitted. we have not yet decided on a method of adoption (full retrospective or modified retrospective basis) and we have not yet determined the potential impact, if any, of this standard on our consolidated financial statements.in july 2015, the fasb issued an update related to inventory.  the new guidance requires that inventory be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. january 1, 2017 we do not expect the provisions of this new standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.in september 2015, the fasb issued an update to its guidance on business combinations. the new guidance requires that an acquirer recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in the reporting period in which the measurement amounts are determined. the new guidance also requires that the acquirer records, in the same period’s financial statements, the effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income effects, if any, as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed as of the acquisition date. the new guidance also requires an entity to present separately on the face of the income statement, or disclose in the notes, the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. effective for all adjustments made to provisional amounts reported for acquisitions still in the measurement stage as of the time of issuance. we will use this guidance for any adjustments to provisional amounts reported for acquisitions that may become necessary going forward, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.94forward-looking information and factors that may affect future resultsthis report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” “forecast,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisition of hospira, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the “our financial guidance for 2015” section of this md&a, the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook” and “restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives” sections of this md&a and in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, the anticipated accretion and cost synergies expected from our recent acquisition of hospira set forth in the “overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook” section of this md&a; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to our pension and postretirement plans during 2015 set forth in notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 10. pension and postretirement benefit plans. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following:•the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data;•decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products; and uncertainties regarding our ability to address the comments in complete response letters received by us with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of the fda;•the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved;•the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential;•risks associated with interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication;•the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframe or at all;•competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates;•the implementation by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights;•the ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection for our products or competitor products;•the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally;95•difficulties or delays in manufacturing;•trade buying patterns;•the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity;•trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment;•the impact of any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on the pharmaceutical industry as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort;• the impact of u.s. healthcare legislation enacted in 2010—the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act––and of any modification or repeal of any of the provisions thereof;• u.s. federal or state legislation or regulatory action affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under medicaid, medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; direct-to-consumer advertising and interactions with healthcare professionals; and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures as a result of highly competitive insurance markets;•legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the u.s. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products and government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries;•the exposure of our operations outside the u.s. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest and unstable governments and legal systems;•contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination;•claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates;•any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure;•legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs, the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to product liability, patent protection, government investigations, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental and tax issues, ongoing efforts to explore various means for resolving asbestos litigation, and other legal proceedings;•our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally;•interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates;•governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals;•any significant issues involving our largest wholesaler customers, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues;•the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines;•any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards;•any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements;•changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles;•uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and 96counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate;•any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world, and related u.s. military action overseas;•growth in costs and expenses;•changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; •the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items;•the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls and withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our research and development organization, and of the internal separation of our commercial operations into our new operating structure;•risks and uncertainties related to our recent acquisition of hospira, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of hospira, including the possibility that expected synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities; and•risks and uncertainties related to a potential transaction between pfizer and allergan plc, including, without limitation, the possibility that a transaction will not be pursued or that a transaction will not be agreed to, adverse effects on the market price of pfizer's common stock and on pfizer's operating results because of a failure to pursue or to complete a potential transaction, if a transaction is agreed to, the failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or to satisfy any of the other conditions to a potential transaction, failure to realize the expected benefits of a potential transaction, negative effects of the announcement or the consummation of an agreed transaction, if any, on the market price of pfizer’s common stock, significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities, general economic and business conditions that affect the companies following a potential transaction, changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax laws, regulations, rates and policies, future business combinations or disposals and competitive developments.we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements.we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q, 8-k and 10-k reports and our other filings with the sec.our 2014 annual report on form 10-k listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. readers can find them in part i, item 1a, of that filing and part ii, item 1a of this quarterly report on form 10-q under the heading “risk factors.” we incorporate that section of that form 10-k in this filing and investors should refer to it. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.the operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented.this report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. these studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing 97interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether.legal proceedings and contingenciesinformation with respect to legal proceedings and contingencies required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to notes to condensed consolidated financial statements––note 12a. commitments and contingencies: legal proceedings inpart i, item 1, of this quarterly report on form 10-q.98