item 2.management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsforward-looking statements    certain statements contained herein regarding our future performance constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services; net sales growth; comparable store sales; effects of competition; state of the economy; state of the residential construction, housing and home improvement markets; state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit; demand for credit offerings; inventory and in-stock positions; implementation of store, interconnected retail and supply chain initiatives; management of relationships with our suppliers and vendors; the impact and expected outcome of investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation, including those related to the data breach we discovered in the third quarter of fiscal 2014; issues related to the types of payment methods we accept and the timing of upgrades and enhancements impacting point of sale devices; continuation of share repurchase programs; net earnings performance; earnings per share; capital allocation and expenditures; liquidity; return on invested capital; expense leverage; stock-based compensation expense; commodity price inflation and deflation; the ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us; the effect of accounting charges; the effect of adopting certain accounting standards; store openings and closures; and financial outlook.forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. you should not rely on our forward-looking statements. these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties – many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to us – as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in part ii, item 1a, "risk factors" and elsewhere in this report. you should read such information in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and "management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this report. there also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not currently perceive them to be material. such factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations.forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these statements other than as required by law. you are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). executive summary and selected consolidated statements of earnings datafor the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we reported net earnings of $1.6 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.21 compared to net earnings of $1.4 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.00 for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 included a $71 million net benefit to our provision for income taxes due primarily to a favorable settlement of a tax audit. the results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 included a $97 million pretax gain related to the sale of a portion of our equity ownership in hd supply holdings, inc. ("hd supply").during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we changed our accounting policy for shipping and handling costs from our stores, locations or distribution centers to customers and for online fulfillment center costs. under the new accounting policy, these costs are included in cost of sales, whereas they were previously included in operating expenses. the consolidated statements of earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 have been reclassified to reflect this change in accounting policy. the impact of this reclassification was an increase of $128 million to cost of sales and a corresponding decrease of $128 million to operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. this reclassification had no impact on net sales, operating income, net earnings or earnings per share.net sales increased 6.1% to $20.9 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 from $19.7 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. our total comparable store sales increased 6.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, driven by a 4.4% increase in our comparable store customer transactions and a 1.7% increase in our comparable store average ticket. comparable store sales for our u.s. stores increased 7.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. data breachin the third quarter of fiscal 2014, we confirmed that our payment data systems were breached, which potentially impacted customers who used payment cards at self-checkout systems in our u.s. and canadian stores (the "data breach"). our investigation to date has determined the intruder used a vendor’s user name and password to enter the perimeter of our network. the intruder then acquired elevated rights that allowed it to navigate portions of our systems and to deploy unique, custom-built malware on our self-checkout systems to access payment card information of up to 56 million customers who shopped at our u.s. and canadian stores between april 2014 and september 2014. on september 18, 2014, we confirmed that the 12table of contentsmalware used in the data breach had been eliminated from our systems. there is no evidence that debit pin numbers were compromised or that the data breach impacted stores in mexico or customers who shopped online at homedepot.com or homedepot.ca. in addition, we announced on november 6, 2014 that separate files containing approximately 53 million email addresses were also taken during the data breach. these files did not contain passwords, payment card information or other sensitive personal information. the investigation of the data breach is ongoing, and we are supporting law enforcement efforts to identify the responsible parties.in september 2014, we completed a major payment security project that provides enhanced encryption of payment card data at the point of sale in all of our u.s. stores, offering significant new protection for customers. the new security protection takes raw payment card information and scrambles it to make it unreadable to unauthorized users. we are also rolling out enhanced encryption to our canadian stores and emv chip-and-pin technology in our u.s. stores, which will add extra layers of payment card protection for customers who use emv enabled chip-and-pin cards. our canadian stores are already enabled with emv chip-and-pin technology.expenses incurredin the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we recorded $16 million of pretax gross expenses for legal and other professional services related to the data breach, partially offset by $9 million of expected insurance proceeds for costs we believe are reimbursable and probable of recovery under our insurance coverage, for pretax net expenses of $7 million. these expenses were expensed as incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2015. litigation, claims and government investigationsin addition to the above expenses, we believe it is probable that the payment card networks will make claims against us. the ultimate amount of these claims will likely include amounts for incremental counterfeit fraud losses and non-ordinary course operating expenses (such as card reissuance costs) that the payment card networks assert they or their issuing banks have incurred. in order for us to have liability for such claims, we believe it would have to be determined, among other things, that (1) at the time of the data breach the portion of our network that handles payment card data was noncompliant with applicable data security standards, and (2) the alleged noncompliance caused at least some portion of the compromise of payment card data that occurred during the data breach. although an independent third-party assessor found the portion of our network that handles payment card data to be compliant with applicable data security standards in the fall of 2013, and the process of obtaining such certification for 2014 was ongoing at the time of the data breach, in march 2015 the forensic investigator working on behalf of the payment card networks alleged that we were not in compliance with certain of those standards at the time of the data breach. as a result, we believe it is probable that the payment card networks will make claims against us and that we will dispute those claims. when those claims are asserted, we will have to determine, based on the facts and information then available to us, whether to litigate or seek to settle those claims. at this time, we believe that settlement negotiations will ensue and that it is probable that we will incur a loss in connection with those claims. we cannot reasonably estimate a range of losses because no claims have yet been asserted and because there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved. we will continue to evaluate information as it becomes known and will record an estimate for losses at the time or times when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. we believe that the ultimate amount paid on payment card network claims could be material to our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.in addition, at least 57 class actions have been filed in courts in the u.s. and canada, and other claims may be asserted against us on behalf of customers, payment card brands, payment card issuing banks, shareholders or others seeking damages or other related relief, allegedly arising from the data breach. the u.s. class actions have been consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the united states district court for the northern district of georgia. that court ordered that the individual class actions be administratively closed in favor of the filing of consolidated class action complaints on behalf of customers and financial institutions allegedly harmed by the data breach. in addition, several state and federal agencies, including state attorneys general, are investigating events related to the data breach, including how it occurred, its consequences and our responses. we are cooperating in the governmental investigations, and we may be subject to fines or other obligations. while a loss from these matters is reasonably possible, we are not able to estimate the costs, or range of costs, related to these matters because the proceedings remain in the early stages, alleged damages have not been specified, there is uncertainty as to the likelihood of a class or classes being certified or the ultimate size of any class if certified, and there are significant factual and legal issues to be resolved. we have not concluded that a loss from these matters is probable; therefore, we have not recorded an accrual for litigation, claims and governmental investigations related to these matters in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. we will continue to evaluate information as it becomes known and will record an estimate for losses at the time or times when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. we believe that the ultimate amount paid on these actions, claims and investigations could be material to our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.13table of contentsfuture costswe expect to incur significant legal and other professional services expenses associated with the data breach in future periods. we will recognize these expenses as services are received. costs related to the data breach that may be incurred in future periods may also include liabilities to payment card networks for reimbursements of credit card fraud and card reissuance costs; liabilities related to our private label credit card fraud and card reissuance costs; liabilities from current and future civil litigation, governmental investigations and enforcement proceedings; future expenses for legal, investigative and consulting fees; and incremental expenses and capital investments for remediation activities. we believe that the ultimate amount paid on these services and claims could be material to our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods.insurance coveragewe maintained $100 million of network security and privacy liability insurance coverage in fiscal 2014, above a $7.5 million deductible, to limit our exposure to losses such as those related to the data breach. as of may 3, 2015, we had received initial payments totaling $30 million of insurance reimbursements under the fiscal 2014 policy, and expect to receive additional payments. in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we entered into a new policy, with $100 million of network security and privacy liability insurance coverage, above a $10 million deductible, to limit our exposure to similar losses. key initiativesin the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we continued to focus on the following key initiatives:customer service – our customer service initiative is anchored on the principles of simplifying the business, creating an emotional connection with customers, putting customers first and taking care of our associates. in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we utilized our recently deployed second generation first phone, a handheld mobile device used by our store associates, to enhance customer service in the stores. this device allowed associates to convert online sales in the aisle and expedite the checkout process for customers during peak traffic periods. further, we improved our net promoter score during the quarter.product authority – our product authority initiative is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is focused on delivering product innovation, assortment and value. in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we continued to introduce a wide range of innovative new products to our professional, do-it-for-me and do-it-yourself customers, while remaining focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. we also continued to use our merchandising assortment planning and pricing tools to help us make focused merchandising decisions regarding product assortment in particular stores or geographic areas.disciplined capital allocation, productivity and efficiency – our approach to driving productivity and efficiency is advanced through continuous operational improvement in the stores and our supply chain, disciplined capital allocation and building shareholder value through higher returns on invested capital and total value returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. we repurchased a total of 9.9 million shares for $1.1 billion through an accelerated share repurchase ("asr") agreement and the open market during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. we opened one new store in canada during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, for a total store count of 2,270 at the end of the quarter. as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015, a total of 293 of our stores, or 12.9%, were located in canada and mexico.we generated $3.4 billion of cash flow from operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. this cash flow was used to fund $1.1 billion of share repurchases, pay $769 million of dividends, fund $322 million in capital expenditures and repay $290 million of short-term borrowings.our inventory turnover ratio was 4.7 times at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 4.4 times at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2014. our return on invested capital (computed on net operating profit after tax for the trailing twelve months and the average of beginning and ending long-term debt and equity) was 26.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 21.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014.interconnected retail – our focus on interconnected retail, which connects our other three key initiatives, is based on building a competitive and seamless platform across all commerce channels. during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we further connected our in-store and online experiences by leveraging our digital marketing capabilities to more effectively target customers with relevant products and special buys, highlight local in-store product assortments and increase traffic to our stores. the enhanced product locator on our mobile application also helped customers find products in our stores. additionally, we began further interconnecting our distribution networks and our rapid deployment centers ("rdcs") by beginning to provide our rdcs with the capability to process buy online, ship to store ("boss") orders. these enhancements will create a more efficient 14table of contentsproduct flow to our stores and will more effectively meet our customers' demands for fulfillment options. over 40% of our online orders are picked up in our stores through our buy online, pick-up in store ("bopis") and boss programs. sales from our online channels increased 29.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the same period last year and represented approximately 5.1% of our total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015.we believe the selected sales data, the percentage relationship between net sales and major categories in the consolidated statements of earnings and the percentage change in the dollar amounts of each of the items presented below are important in evaluating the performance of our business operations. % of net sales   three months ended   may 3, 2015 may 4, 2014 % increase (decrease)in dollar amountsnet sales100.0 % 100.0 % 6.1%gross profit34.4 34.3 6.2operating expenses:     selling, general and administrative19.9 20.7 2.4depreciation and amortization2.0 2.1 1.5total operating expenses21.9 22.8 2.3      operating income12.4 11.6 14.1interest and other (income) expense:     interest and investment income— (0.5) n/minterest expense0.9 1.0 3.1interest and other, net0.9 0.5 n/m      earnings before provision for income taxes11.5 11.1 10.0provision for income taxes3.9 4.1 2.2net earnings7.6 % 7.0 % 14.5%selected sales data     number of customer transactions (in millions)360.2 344.5 4.6%average ticket$58.60 $57.59 1.8%sales per square foot$353.70 $334.01 5.9%comparable store sales increase (%)(1)6.1 % 2.6 % n/aonline sales (% of net sales)(2)5.1 % 4.2 % 29.4%note: certain percentages may not sum to totals due to rounding. —————(1)includes net sales at locations open greater than 12 months, including relocated and remodeled stores and online sales, and excluding closed stores. retail stores become comparable on the monday following their 365th day of operation. comparable store sales is intended only as supplemental information and is not a substitute for net sales or net earnings presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.(2)consists of net sales generated online through our home depot, home decorators collection and blinds.com websites for products delivered to customer locations or picked up in stores through our bopis and boss programs. n/m – not meaningfuln/a – not applicable15table of contentsresults of operationsnet sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 increased 6.1% to $20.9 billion from $19.7 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. the increase in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 reflects the impact of positive comparable store sales driven by increased customer transactions and average ticket growth. total comparable store sales increased 6.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 on top of an increase of 2.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. the positive comparable store sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 reflect a number of factors, including the execution of our key initiatives, continued strength in our maintenance and repair categories, and an improved u.s. home improvement market. all of our departments posted positive comparable store sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015. comparable store sales for our tools, indoor garden, outdoor garden, décor, lighting, plumbing and appliances product categories were above the company average for the first quarter of fiscal 2015. further, our comparable store customer transactions increased 4.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015. our comparable store average ticket increased 1.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015, due in part to strong sales in big ticket purchases, such as riding lawnmowers, water heaters, appliances, windows and sheds.gross profit increased 6.2% to $7.2 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 from $6.8 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. gross profit as a percent of net sales increased 4 basis points to 34.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 34.3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. the increase in gross profit margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 reflects benefits from our supply chain driven by lower fuel costs and increased productivity, partially offset by a change in the mix of products sold and slightly higher shrink compared to the same period of fiscal 2014. selling, general and administrative expenses ("sg&a") increased 2.4% to $4.2 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 from $4.1 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. sg&a for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 included $16 million of pretax gross expenses related to the data breach, partially offset by a $9 million receivable for costs we believe are reimbursable and probable of recovery under our insurance coverage, for pretax net expenses of $7 million. as a percent of net sales, sg&a was 19.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 20.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. the decrease in sg&a as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 reflects expense leverage resulting from the positive comparable store sales environment.depreciation and amortization increased 1.5% to $419 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 from $413 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. depreciation and amortization as a percent of net sales was 2.0% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 2.1% for the first quarter of 2014. the decrease in depreciation and amortization as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 reflects expense leverage resulting from the positive comparable store sales environment.operating income increased 14.1% to $2.6 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 from $2.3 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. operating income as a percent of net sales was 12.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 11.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. for the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we recognized $193 million of interest and other, net, compared to $91 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. interest and other, net, as a percent of net sales was 0.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 0.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. interest and other, net, for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 included a $97 million pretax gain related to the sale of a portion of our equity ownership in hd supply.our combined effective income tax rate was 34.3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to 36.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. the effective income tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 reflects a $71 million net benefit to our provision for income taxes due primarily to a favorable settlement of a tax audit.diluted earnings per share were $1.21 for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to $1.00 for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 reflect $0.05 of benefit from a favorable settlement of a tax audit. diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 reflect $0.04 of benefit from the gain related to the sale of a portion of our equity ownership in hd supply.liquidity and capital resourcescash flow generated from operations provides us with a significant source of liquidity. for the first quarter of fiscal 2015, net cash provided by operating activities was $3.4 billion compared to $2.6 billion for the same period in fiscal 2014. this increase was primarily due to an increase in cash flows from accounts payable and accrued expenses related to increased purchases, and a $200 million increase in net earnings resulting from higher comparable store sales and expense leverage.net cash used in investing activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was $317 million compared to $280 million for the same period in fiscal 2014. this change was primarily due to a $35 million increase in capital expenditures in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the same period of fiscal 2014.16table of contentsnet cash used in financing activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was $2.0 billion compared to $1.7 billion for the same period of fiscal 2014. this change was primarily the result of $290 million in repayments of short-term borrowings in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and $123 million more in cash dividends paid to stockholders in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the same period of fiscal 2014, partially offset by $125 million less in repurchases of common stock in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the same period of fiscal 2014.in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we entered into an asr agreement with a third-party financial institution to repurchase $850 million of our common stock. under this agreement, we paid $850 million to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of 7 million shares in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. the transaction was completed later in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, at which time we received 500 thousand additional shares. the final number of shares delivered upon settlement of the $850 million asr agreement was determined with reference to the volume weighted average price per share of our common stock over the term of the agreement, less a negotiated discount.we have commercial paper programs that allow for borrowings up to $2.0 billion. in connection with the programs, we have a back-up credit facility with a consortium of banks for borrowings up to $2.0 billion. the credit facility expires in december 2019 and contains various restrictive covenants. at may 3, 2015, we were in compliance with all of the covenants, and they are not expected to impact our liquidity or capital resources. during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, all of our short-term borrowings were under these commercial paper programs and the maximum amount outstanding at any time during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was $720 million. as of may 3, 2015, there were no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs or the related credit facility.as of may 3, 2015, we had $2.8 billion in cash and cash equivalents. we believe that our current cash position, access to the long-term debt capital markets and cash flow generated from operations should be sufficient not only for our operating requirements but also to enable us to complete our capital expenditure programs and fund dividend payments, share repurchases, obligations incurred as a result of the data breach and any required long-term debt payments through the next several fiscal years. in addition, we have funds available from our commercial paper programs and the ability to obtain alternative sources of financing. 17table of contents